src/content/templates/projects/work-breakdown-structure/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Work Breakdown Structure'
description: 'Divide your project into tasks and work packages, assign responsibilities and keep project progress visible at all times.'
date: '2024-08-17'
url: '/template/work-breakdown-structure'
category: 'projects'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Work Breakdown Structure Template: Plan Clearly'
    description: 'Visualize, assign and track tasks and work packages. Break down projects for improved planning and transparency.'
template: '898485ee9b7949c5b987'
---

To divide an initially abstract project into plannable elements, you can use a work breakdown structure to divide the process into subtasks and work packages. Before your team puts together individual work packages, you should define the subtasks into which your project is divided. You can organize these higher-level clusters according to phases, functions or objects.

Once the goal and subtasks of your project are clear, it's time to define the work packages. Describe the task, add a person responsible, a location, a start time and a deadline. You can also note your subtasks and working hours. As the project phases (Table 2) are linked to the work packages (Table 1), you can assign each work package to a phase and thus get an overview of the progress of the project and the hours worked.

Use different views that filter the tasks for each responsible person to display personal to-do lists for each team member. Take advantage of the calendar and timeline plugin to map time periods and keep track of deadlines.

​### Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions or require further information, we recommend our blog article and the help section.

Commit message:

Optimization template description cat. project

src/content/templates/projects/work-breakdown-structure/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Work Breakdown Structure'
description: 'Structure projects, distribute tasks, delegate responsibilities, and visualize progress clearly and transparently.'
date: '2024-08-17'
url: '/template/work-breakdown-structure'
category: 'projects'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Work Breakdown Structure Template: Plan Clearly'
    description: 'Visualize, assign and track tasks and work packages. Break down projects for improved planning and transparency.'
template: '898485ee9b7949c5b987'
---

To divide an initially abstract project into plannable elements, you can use a work breakdown structure to divide the process into subtasks and work packages. Before your team puts together individual work packages, you should define the subtasks into which your project is divided. You can organize these higher-level clusters according to phases, functions or objects.

Once the goal and subtasks of your project are clear, it's time to define the work packages. Describe the task, add a person responsible, a location, a start time and a deadline. You can also note your subtasks and working hours. As the project phases (Table 2) are linked to the work packages (Table 1), you can assign each work package to a phase and thus get an overview of the progress of the project and the hours worked.

Use different views that filter the tasks for each responsible person to display personal to-do lists for each team member. Take advantage of the calendar and timeline plugin to map time periods and keep track of deadlines.

​### Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions or require further information, we recommend our blog article and the help section.
