src/content/pages/industry-solutions/public-service/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Digital administration made easy for public authorities & companies'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Digital administration for authorities & municipalities'
    description: 'Design digital administration with ease: SeaTable offers flexible, GDPR-compliant no-code solutions for public institutions – in the cloud or on-premises'
date: '2025-04-03'
url: '/digital-government'
aliases:
    - '/en/digitale-verwaltung/'
    - '/LG/offentlicher-dienst/'
    - '/offentlicher-dienst/'
    - '/public-service/'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: Digital Administration in Public Service
      subtitle: The No-Code Solution for the Digitalization of the Public Sector
      text: The digitalization of administration is a major challenge. SeaTable offers a flexible and secure solution for this. Administrations can digitalize processes and manage data in compliance with GDPR. Choose between the SeaTable Cloud solution or your own server installation. Start the digital administration of your authority now!
      classes:
          - bg-orange-100
      template: 1acd19d97c8f4ed3ad38
      buttons:
          - label: Get started now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know the functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-white
      title: Efficiently implement digitalization in public administration
      subtitle: Data security and data protection
      description: The digitalization of public administration can be challenging. Whether citizen inquiries, property management or budget planning - with SeaTable it's easy!
      items:
          - text: '**Centralized data management:** All information securely in one place, always accessible.'
          - text: '**GDPR Compliance:** With SeaTable, you retain full control over sensitive data. Data protection? Done!'
          - text: '**Flexibility and adaptability:** Cloud or your own server? Your choice! Easily adapt processes via drag & drop.'
          - text: '**Interdisciplinary collaboration:** SeaTable connects authorities, provides a secure data basis and communication platform.'
      image: /images/Screenshots-LP-Oeffentlicher-Dienst-630x625-1-1.png

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 3
      title: Administrative Digitalization
      subtitle: From planning to implementation
      text: 'Digitalization in authorities requires clever planning and implementation. With SeaTable, you get all the tools you need to master the digitalization process - from analysis to integration. Digitalization is not just about automation, but also about a more efficient working culture, transparency and citizen proximity.'
      items:
          - icon: signature
            headline: Approval and application management
            text: 'Create digital forms and track the status of applications in real time.'
          - icon: building
            headline: Real estate management
            text: 'Manage properties with structured and customizable databases.'
          - icon: substack
            headline: Budget planning for municipalities
            text: 'Digitalize financial planning and management for more efficient budget planning.'
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Absence and personnel management
            text: Automate the management of personnel files, vacation requests and absences to increase efficiency.
          - icon: check
            headline: Project management
            text: Manage projects efficiently and transparently with automated processes and real-time collaboration.
          - icon: music
            headline: Cultural funding
            text: Organize funding projects transparently and automatically for more planning security.  

    - name: content-3
      weight: 4
      title: Templates for a digitalized administration
      subtitle: Get started now
      description: With SeaTable, digitalization in the public sector becomes an opportunity not only to digitalize processes, but also to make them efficient and optimize them. Import ready-made templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.
      items:
          - headline: 'Project portfolio'
            text: Projects
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Services_Projektportfolio.png
            image_alt: Base Editor
          - headline: Real estate administration
            text: Real estate
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Sector_Property-Management_Template.png
            image_alt:
          - headline: Time recording
            text: Human resources
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Sector_Time-Tracker.png
            image_alt:
      buttons:
          - label: 'Find more templates for your application'
            link: 'templates'
            style: secondary

    - name: content-25
      weight: 5
      title: No-Code solution for digitalization in authorities
      subtitle: Efficient and independent of scarce IT resources
      text: SeaTable revolutionizes digitalization in authorities with its user-friendly no-code solution. Complex processes can be easily mapped without programming knowledge. Perfect for authorities where IT capacities are often scarce. With the drag-and-drop interface, you can digitalize administrative processes quickly and easily.
      items:
          - headline: 'Individual solutions'
            text: Whether [property management]({{< relref "posts/20250318-liegenschaftsverwaltung" >}}), **budget planning** or citizen inquiries – the possibilities are diverse. SeaTable integrates seamlessly into existing structures and simplifies digitalization without major IT effort.
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Services_Property-Management.png
          - headline: 'User-friendly apps'
            text: With the SeaTable App Builder, you can effortlessly create user-friendly apps. Employees quickly find their way around, which increases acceptance and makes digitalization more efficient. Optimize your administrative processes and meet modern requirements.
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Services-Universal-App.png

    - name: content-21
      weight: 6
      title: Digitalization of authorities – efficient cooperation between authority departments
      subtitle: Advantages of cross-authority cooperation with SeaTable
      text: A central aspect of digitalization in administration is cross-functional cooperation between different authority departments. SeaTable enables seamless integration and communication between different departments and authorities, **without compromising the security and confidentiality of the data**, i.e. digitalization down to the municipal level.
      items:
          - headline: 'Shared databases'
            text: Use shared databases for coordinated collaboration and accelerated processes.
          - headline: 'Role-specific access rights'
            text: Control access to data and processes to ensure data security.
          - headline: Efficient communication
            text: Use integrated communication functions to improve collaboration and accelerate decision-making processes.

    - name: content-4
      weight: 7
      title: Flexibility in the digitalization of administration
      subtitle: Cloud or your own server?
      text: 'A flexible and secure platform is a must for the digitalization of administration. With SeaTable, you have the choice: use our cloud solution or install it directly on your server. Both options guarantee maximum security and adaptability to meet your specific requirements.'
      buttons:
          - label: Try it now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Benefit from a modern cloud infrastructure that enables fast implementation and easy scalability. Ideal for authorities that want to quickly advance their digitalization in municipalities.
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-cloud'
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: Retain full control over your data by operating SeaTable on your own servers - ideal for institutions with strict data protection requirements to securely implement the digitalization of public administrations.
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-server'
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: With SeaTable Dedicated you combine the simplicity of the cloud with the flexibility of a self-hosted system. We install, support and maintain your very own SeaTable server.
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-dedicated'   

      # TODO: links werden nicht richtig aufgelöst
      # FIXME: die icons werden nicht richtig gemacht.

    - name: form-newsletter
      weight: 8
      title: Digitalization in the public sector with SeaTable
      subtitle: Success stories
      text: Numerous authorities and municipalities have been successfully digitalized with SeaTable. The digitalization of public administration increases efficiency, transparency and citizen proximity. Discover our success stories and see how your administration can benefit!

    - name: faq
      weight: 10
      title: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
      items:
          - q: 'What are the advantages of authority digitalization with SeaTable?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers comprehensive tools and templates for digitalizing your administrative processes. You can efficiently and DSGVO-compliant digitally manage applications, approvals, personnel files, budget planning and much more. The platform is flexible and can be used as a cloud solution as well as on-premises.'

          - q: 'Digitalization public administration: Is SeaTable really free to use?'
            a: 'Yes, you can use SeaTable for free and try out the basic functions of the platform for the digitalization of administration or the digitalization of municipalities without entering a credit card. Cost-effective premium versions are available for extended functions and larger storage space.'

          - q: 'What security measures does SeaTable offer for digitalization in administration?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers the highest security standards and a GDPR-compliant environment for both cloud and on-premises solutions. All data is stored in certified German data centers of a Swiss provider and there are comprehensive options for managing access rights and logging data access.'

          - q: 'Can SeaTable also be used for cooperation between several authority departments?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable supports cross-functional cooperation between different authority departments by providing shared databases, role-specific access rights and efficient communication options. This allows different authority departments to work together securely and efficiently.'

          - q: 'Why is SeaTable the best choice for digitalization in the public sector?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers a flexible and secure solution that has been specially developed for digitalization in authorities. The platform enables complete customization of digital processes to the specific requirements of your authority and offers both cloud and on-premises options for maximum control and security.'

          - q: 'What does digital administration include?'
            a: 'Digital administration as defined includes the complete digitalization and optimization of all processes within an authority or administrative unit. The goal is to achieve greater efficiency, transparency and security through digital tools and technologies. Digitalized administration makes it possible to process citizen inquiries faster, manage data securely and simplify communication between different departments and authorities. SeaTable offers a flexible no-code solution for this that adapts to the specific requirements of the digitalization of authorities. Administrative digitalization goes beyond simply converting paper to digital documents. It is about automating processes, ensuring data security and making workflows within the digitalized administration efficient. SeaTable is designed to make the path to digitalization in the public sector as easy and effective as possible. Our no-code platform offers not only functions for data management, but also for process optimization and cooperation between different departments and authority departments, i.e. for digitalized administration in all official instances.'

          - q: 'How can SeaTable be used to design the digitalization of authorities?'
            a: "The Digitalization Act calls for comprehensive changes and adaptations in digital administration. SeaTable supports you in meeting these requirements by offering you a flexible and comprehensive solution for digitalization in the public sector. Whether it's e-government, public administration, the digitalization of authorities or the optimization of processes in public service - SeaTable offers the functions you need for successful digitalized administration."

    - name: banner-2
      weight: 11
      title: Register now for free for the digitalization of your administration
      buttons:
          - label: Register now
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: form-contact
      weight: 12
      title: Do you have questions about digitalization with SeaTable?
      description: We are at your disposal to answer your questions about the digital transformation of public administration with SeaTable. Contact us to learn more about how SeaTable can make your processes more efficient and secure.
---

Commit message:

Public Sector, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/industry-solutions/public-service/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Digital administration made easy for public authorities & companies'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Digital administration for authorities & municipalities'
    description: 'Design digital administration with ease: SeaTable offers flexible, GDPR-compliant no-code solutions for public institutions – in the cloud or on-premises'
date: '2025-04-03'
url: '/digital-government'
aliases:
    - '/en/digitale-verwaltung/'
    - '/LG/offentlicher-dienst/'
    - '/offentlicher-dienst/'
    - '/public-service/'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: Digital Administration in Public Service
      subtitle: The No-Code Solution for the Digitalization of the Public Sector
      text: The digitalization of administration is a major challenge. SeaTable offers a flexible and secure solution for this. Administrations can digitalize processes and manage data in compliance with GDPR. Choose between the SeaTable Cloud solution or your own server installation. Start the digital administration of your authority now!
      classes:
          - bg-orange-100
      template: 1acd19d97c8f4ed3ad38
      buttons:
          - label: Get started now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know the functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-white
      title: Efficiently implement digitalization in public administration
      subtitle: Data security and data protection
      description: The digitalization of public administration can be challenging. Whether citizen inquiries, property management or budget planning - with SeaTable it's easy!
      items:
          - text: '**Centralized data management:** All information securely in one place, always accessible.'
          - text: '**GDPR Compliance:** With SeaTable, you retain full control over sensitive data. Data protection? Done!'
          - text: '**Flexibility and adaptability:** Cloud or your own server? Your choice! Easily adapt processes via drag & drop.'
          - text: '**Interdisciplinary collaboration:** SeaTable connects authorities, provides a secure data basis and communication platform.'
      image: /images/Screenshots-LP-Oeffentlicher-Dienst-630x625-1-1.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable interface for digital administration with centralized data management'

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 3
      title: Administrative Digitalization
      subtitle: From planning to implementation
      text: 'Digitalization in authorities requires clever planning and implementation. With SeaTable, you get all the tools you need to master the digitalization process - from analysis to integration. Digitalization is not just about automation, but also about a more efficient working culture, transparency and citizen proximity.'
      items:
          - icon: signature
            headline: Approval and application management
            text: 'Create digital forms and track the status of applications in real time.'
          - icon: building
            headline: Real estate management
            text: 'Manage properties with structured and customizable databases.'
          - icon: substack
            headline: Budget planning for municipalities
            text: 'Digitalize financial planning and management for more efficient budget planning.'
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Absence and personnel management
            text: Automate the management of personnel files, vacation requests and absences to increase efficiency.
          - icon: check
            headline: Project management
            text: Manage projects efficiently and transparently with automated processes and real-time collaboration.
          - icon: music
            headline: Cultural funding
            text: Organize funding projects transparently and automatically for more planning security.  

    - name: content-3
      weight: 4
      title: Templates for a digitalized administration
      subtitle: Get started now
      description: With SeaTable, digitalization in the public sector becomes an opportunity not only to digitalize processes, but also to make them efficient and optimize them. Import ready-made templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.
      items:
          - headline: 'Project portfolio'
            text: Projects
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Services_Projektportfolio.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable project portfolio template for public sector initiatives'
          - headline: Real estate administration
            text: Real estate
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Sector_Property-Management_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable template for municipal real estate and property management'
          - headline: Time recording
            text: Human resources
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Sector_Time-Tracker.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable template for time tracking in the public sector'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Find more templates for your application'
            link: 'templates'
            style: secondary

    - name: content-25
      weight: 5
      title: No-Code solution for digitalization in authorities
      subtitle: Efficient and independent of scarce IT resources
      text: SeaTable revolutionizes digitalization in authorities with its user-friendly no-code solution. Complex processes can be easily mapped without programming knowledge. Perfect for authorities where IT capacities are often scarce. With the drag-and-drop interface, you can digitalize administrative processes quickly and easily.
      items:
          - headline: 'Individual solutions'
            text: Whether [property management]({{< relref "posts/20250318-liegenschaftsverwaltung" >}}), **budget planning** or citizen inquiries – the possibilities are diverse. SeaTable integrates seamlessly into existing structures and simplifies digitalization without major IT effort.
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Services_Property-Management.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable template for property management in public administration'
          - headline: 'User-friendly apps'
            text: With the SeaTable App Builder, you can effortlessly create user-friendly apps. Employees quickly find their way around, which increases acceptance and makes digitalization more efficient. Optimize your administrative processes and meet modern requirements.
            image: /images/Landing-Page-Public-Services-Universal-App.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable universal app for user-friendly administration applications'

    - name: content-21
      weight: 6
      title: Digitalization of authorities – efficient cooperation between authority departments
      subtitle: Advantages of cross-authority cooperation with SeaTable
      text: A central aspect of digitalization in administration is cross-functional cooperation between different authority departments. SeaTable enables seamless integration and communication between different departments and authorities, **without compromising the security and confidentiality of the data**, i.e. digitalization down to the municipal level.
      items:
          - headline: 'Shared databases'
            text: Use shared databases for coordinated collaboration and accelerated processes.
          - headline: 'Role-specific access rights'
            text: Control access to data and processes to ensure data security.
          - headline: Efficient communication
            text: Use integrated communication functions to improve collaboration and accelerate decision-making processes.

    - name: content-4
      weight: 7
      title: Flexibility in the digitalization of administration
      subtitle: Cloud or your own server?
      text: 'A flexible and secure platform is a must for the digitalization of administration. With SeaTable, you have the choice: use our cloud solution or install it directly on your server. Both options guarantee maximum security and adaptability to meet your specific requirements.'
      buttons:
          - label: Try it now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Benefit from a modern cloud infrastructure that enables fast implementation and easy scalability. Ideal for authorities that want to quickly advance their digitalization in municipalities.
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-cloud'
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: Retain full control over your data by operating SeaTable on your own servers - ideal for institutions with strict data protection requirements to securely implement the digitalization of public administrations.
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-server'
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: With SeaTable Dedicated you combine the simplicity of the cloud with the flexibility of a self-hosted system. We install, support and maintain your very own SeaTable server.
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-dedicated'   

      # TODO: links werden nicht richtig aufgelöst
      # FIXME: die icons werden nicht richtig gemacht.

    - name: form-newsletter
      weight: 8
      title: Digitalization in the public sector with SeaTable
      subtitle: Success stories
      text: Numerous authorities and municipalities have been successfully digitalized with SeaTable. The digitalization of public administration increases efficiency, transparency and citizen proximity. Discover our success stories and see how your administration can benefit!

    - name: faq
      weight: 10
      title: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
      items:
          - q: 'What are the advantages of authority digitalization with SeaTable?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers comprehensive tools and templates for digitalizing your administrative processes. You can efficiently and DSGVO-compliant digitally manage applications, approvals, personnel files, budget planning and much more. The platform is flexible and can be used as a cloud solution as well as on-premises.'

          - q: 'Digitalization public administration: Is SeaTable really free to use?'
            a: 'Yes, you can use SeaTable for free and try out the basic functions of the platform for the digitalization of administration or the digitalization of municipalities without entering a credit card. Cost-effective premium versions are available for extended functions and larger storage space.'

          - q: 'What security measures does SeaTable offer for digitalization in administration?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers the highest security standards and a GDPR-compliant environment for both cloud and on-premises solutions. All data is stored in certified German data centers of a Swiss provider and there are comprehensive options for managing access rights and logging data access.'

          - q: 'Can SeaTable also be used for cooperation between several authority departments?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable supports cross-functional cooperation between different authority departments by providing shared databases, role-specific access rights and efficient communication options. This allows different authority departments to work together securely and efficiently.'

          - q: 'Why is SeaTable the best choice for digitalization in the public sector?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers a flexible and secure solution that has been specially developed for digitalization in authorities. The platform enables complete customization of digital processes to the specific requirements of your authority and offers both cloud and on-premises options for maximum control and security.'

          - q: 'What does digital administration include?'
            a: 'Digital administration as defined includes the complete digitalization and optimization of all processes within an authority or administrative unit. The goal is to achieve greater efficiency, transparency and security through digital tools and technologies. Digitalized administration makes it possible to process citizen inquiries faster, manage data securely and simplify communication between different departments and authorities. SeaTable offers a flexible no-code solution for this that adapts to the specific requirements of the digitalization of authorities. Administrative digitalization goes beyond simply converting paper to digital documents. It is about automating processes, ensuring data security and making workflows within the digitalized administration efficient. SeaTable is designed to make the path to digitalization in the public sector as easy and effective as possible. Our no-code platform offers not only functions for data management, but also for process optimization and cooperation between different departments and authority departments, i.e. for digitalized administration in all official instances.'

          - q: 'How can SeaTable be used to design the digitalization of authorities?'
            a: "The Digitalization Act calls for comprehensive changes and adaptations in digital administration. SeaTable supports you in meeting these requirements by offering you a flexible and comprehensive solution for digitalization in the public sector. Whether it's e-government, public administration, the digitalization of authorities or the optimization of processes in public service - SeaTable offers the functions you need for successful digitalized administration."

    - name: banner-2
      weight: 11
      title: Register now for free for the digitalization of your administration
      buttons:
          - label: Register now
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: form-contact
      weight: 12
      title: Do you have questions about digitalization with SeaTable?
      description: We are at your disposal to answer your questions about the digital transformation of public administration with SeaTable. Contact us to learn more about how SeaTable can make your processes more efficient and secure.
---
