src/content/templates/human-resources/recording-working-time/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Recording Working Time'
description: 'Record working hours, leave, and sick days centrally, monitor overtime, and generate statistics – EU-compliant and paperless.'
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/recording-working-time'
category: 'human-resources'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Working Time Recording Template – EU HR Compliance'
    description: 'Record working hours, absences & paid leave for all staff – compliant timesheet solution for EU companies, instantly ready to use.'
template: '7b72578c0e714750954a'
weight: 2
---

Would you like to implement the EU's mandatory working time recording in your company? Then discover our sophisticated template for simple, efficient and legally compliant working time recording. With Enterprise subscription, the template is fully available to you at no additional cost, but you can also use the template (without automations) with Plus subscription or a free Free account.

In the first table of Base all working times, vacation requests and sick notes of your employees flow in. There are four overarching admin views that give you a full overview of all the attendances and absences of your team members. In the second table, you enter all relevant employee data. It is important that you assign a unique ID to each team member, which can be used to filter the personal views. You can learn everything about this in ourexplanatory video on YouTube.

In an employee app built with SeaTable, you can make data entry intuitive and user-friendly by having your employees enter work hours, vacation requests, and sick leave in web forms. In doing so, you can provide the input fields with specific instructions to guide those completing them safely through the process.

![](images/Mitarbeiter-App.gif)

As your employees fill out the web forms, SeaTable adds new entries to the appropriate tables, which the responsible manager can then approve or reject in a management app. On your dashboard, you can include statistics that allow you and your managers to keep track of all your employees' overtime, vacation and sick leave. Calendars also allow you to display data in a calendar overview.

![](images/Dashboard_4MB.gif)

Of course, you can use many more features of SeaTable to develop your own application for time tracking in your company, completely according to your wishes. The template can be extended by any number of tables and columns based on the employee database, for example for payroll, internal training and shift schedules. Revolutionize your HR management with SeaTable! You can find more on the topic of working time recordinghere.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions, we recommend our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).

Commit message:

template/recording-working-time, image-alt, all languages

src/content/templates/human-resources/recording-working-time/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Recording Working Time'
description: 'Record working hours, leave, and sick days centrally, monitor overtime, and generate statistics – EU-compliant and paperless.'
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/recording-working-time'
category: 'human-resources'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Working Time Recording Template – EU HR Compliance'
    description: 'Record working hours, absences & paid leave for all staff – compliant timesheet solution for EU companies, instantly ready to use.'
template: '7b72578c0e714750954a'
weight: 2
---

Would you like to implement the EU's mandatory working time recording in your company? Then discover our sophisticated template for simple, efficient and legally compliant working time recording. With Enterprise subscription, the template is fully available to you at no additional cost, but you can also use the template (without automations) with Plus subscription or a free Free account.

In the first table of Base all working times, vacation requests and sick notes of your employees flow in. There are four overarching admin views that give you a full overview of all the attendances and absences of your team members. In the second table, you enter all relevant employee data. It is important that you assign a unique ID to each team member, which can be used to filter the personal views. You can learn everything about this in ourexplanatory video on YouTube.

In an employee app built with SeaTable, you can make data entry intuitive and user-friendly by having your employees enter work hours, vacation requests, and sick leave in web forms. In doing so, you can provide the input fields with specific instructions to guide those completing them safely through the process.

![Employee app for time recording with web forms for hours, vacation and sick leave](images/Mitarbeiter-App.gif)

As your employees fill out the web forms, SeaTable adds new entries to the appropriate tables, which the responsible manager can then approve or reject in a management app. On your dashboard, you can include statistics that allow you and your managers to keep track of all your employees' overtime, vacation and sick leave. Calendars also allow you to display data in a calendar overview.

![HR dashboard in SeaTable with statistics on overtime, vacation and sick leave](images/Dashboard_4MB.gif)

Of course, you can use many more features of SeaTable to develop your own application for time tracking in your company, completely according to your wishes. The template can be extended by any number of tables and columns based on the employee database, for example for payroll, internal training and shift schedules. Revolutionize your HR management with SeaTable! You can find more on the topic of working time recordinghere.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions, we recommend our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).
