src/content/templates/everyday-life/habit-tracker-bullet-journal/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Habit Tracker & Bullet Journal'
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/habit-tracker-bullet-journal'
category: 'everyday-life'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Habit Tracker & Bullet Journal Template'
    description: 'Track habits & organize tasks – free habit tracker & bullet journal solution.'
template: 'c7a62de5f2664659bce2'
---

We often make good resolutions for the future and then don't manage to follow them through. On the other hand, many unpleasant patterns of behavior have become established in our everyday lives and have quietly and secretly become habits. Getting rid of them or, in the best case, turning them into good habits requires a lot of time, discipline and perseverance. But with a habit tracker, you can succeed in this endeavor.

In the SeaTable template, you can record your goals in a structured way and track your habits day by day. The calendar plugin offers you a filtered view for each activity, in which you can immediately see the days on which you performed it. In the second table, which represents a bullet journal, you can record diary entries and rate them with a mood barometer in addition to the tracked activities (from table 1) and important appointments (from table 3).

For more information on how to use ahabit trackerand abullet journal, see the articles linked here.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions, our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})is at your disposal.

Commit message:

description templates cat. everyday life

src/content/templates/everyday-life/habit-tracker-bullet-journal/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Habit Tracker & Bullet Journal'
description: 'Capture goals, track habits in a calendar and combine bullet journal, events and mood tracking in one flexible solution.'
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/habit-tracker-bullet-journal'
category: 'everyday-life'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Habit Tracker & Bullet Journal Template'
    description: 'Track habits & organize tasks – free habit tracker & bullet journal solution.'
template: 'c7a62de5f2664659bce2'
---

We often make good resolutions for the future and then don't manage to follow them through. On the other hand, many unpleasant patterns of behavior have become established in our everyday lives and have quietly and secretly become habits. Getting rid of them or, in the best case, turning them into good habits requires a lot of time, discipline and perseverance. But with a habit tracker, you can succeed in this endeavor.

In the SeaTable template, you can record your goals in a structured way and track your habits day by day. The calendar plugin offers you a filtered view for each activity, in which you can immediately see the days on which you performed it. In the second table, which represents a bullet journal, you can record diary entries and rate them with a mood barometer in addition to the tracked activities (from table 1) and important appointments (from table 3).

For more information on how to use ahabit trackerand abullet journal, see the articles linked here.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions, our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})is at your disposal.
