src/content/help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/freigabe-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes-an-eine-andere-gruppe/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Sharing a common record with another group'
date: 2022-11-21
lastmod: '2024-06-12'
categories:
    - 'gemeinsame-datensaetze'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/freigabe-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes-an-eine-andere-gruppe'
---

You can not only use shared data records in the respective group in which you created them, but also share them with other groups. In this way, other users have the opportunity to access the data of the shared data record. They are then able to work with the shared data record and create a new table. A shared data record is released to another group via the start page.

## Sharing a common data record with another group

![Sharing a common data record with another group](images/overview-common-datasets.png)

![Sharing a common data record with another group](images/release-a-common-dataset-to-a-external-group-2.gif) 3. Open the **home** page of SeaTable. 4. Click on the **Shared record** tab. 5. Select the shared data record that you want to **share** with another group. 6. Click on the **three dots** to the right of the corresponding data record and then on **Manage access**. 7. Select a **group** to which the record should be released. 8. Confirm the release by clicking on **Add**.

## Dissolve release

To **cancel** the release of a shared data record to another group, simply follow the steps above again and click **Delete** next to the corresponding group in the access authorizations.

![Resolve release of a shared record to another group.](images/cancel-the-release-of-a-common-dataset-to-an-external-group.png)

### Consequences of the dissolution

If a shared data set **is** released to another group, the **tables created** with the shared data set are retained in this group. The group is therefore **still** able to **work** with the existing data in the tables despite the dissolution.

However, the **synchronization option** with the shared data record is **no** longer available to the group once the share has been deleted, meaning that changes to the shared data record are **no** longer visible to this group. The members of the group therefore only have access to the last version of the shared data record **before** the share was deleted.

Commit message:

Bugfixes release/share & common datasets

src/content/help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/freigabe-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes-an-eine-andere-gruppe/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Sharing a common dataset with another group'
date: 2022-11-21
lastmod: '2024-06-12'
categories:
    - 'gemeinsame-datensaetze'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/freigabe-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes-an-eine-andere-gruppe'
---

You can not only use common datasets in the respective group in which you created them, but also share them with other groups. In this way, other users have the opportunity to access the data of the common dataset. They are then able to work with the common dataset and create a new table. A common dataset is shared with another group via the start page.

## Sharing a common dataset with another group

![Sharing a common dataset with another group](images/overview-common-datasets.png)

![Sharing a common dataset with another group](images/release-a-common-dataset-to-a-external-group-2.gif) 

1. Open the **home page** of SeaTable. 
2. Click on the **common dataset** tab. 
3. Select the common dataset that you want to **share** with another group. 
4. Click on the **three dots** to the right of the corresponding dataset and then on **Manage access**. 
5. Select a **group** with which the dataset should be shared. 
6. Confirm by clicking on **Add**.

## Dissolve share

To **cancel** the share of a common dataset to another group, simply follow the steps above again and click **Delete** next to the corresponding group in the access authorizations.

![Dissolve share of a common dataset to another group.](images/cancel-the-release-of-a-common-dataset-to-an-external-group.png)

### Consequences of the dissolution

If a common dataset **is shared** with another group, the **tables created** with the common dataset are retained in this group. The group is therefore **still** able to **work** with the existing data in the tables despite the dissolution.

However, the **synchronization option** with the common dataset is **no longer available** to the group once the share has been deleted, meaning that changes to the common dataset are **no longer visible** to this group. The members of the group therefore only have access to the last version of the common dataset **before** the share was deleted.
