src/content/help/erste-schritte/online-kurs-1/schritt-5-auswertungen-verknuepfungen/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Step 5: Evaluations using the links'
date: 2024-08-30
lastmod: '2024-09-05'
categories:
    - 'online-kurs'
author: 'cdb'
url: '/help/step-5-analyses-with-links'
aliases:
    - '/help/schritt-5-auswertungen-verknuepfungen'
seo:
    title: 'Step 5: Analyzing Data Using Links in SeaTable'
    description: 'Discover how to create powerful statistical analyses in SeaTable by linking tables and using rollup formulas for dynamic data summaries.'

---

We have now linked the data records from both tables. It is important that this link is not one-sided. If you go to the table `Categories` you will see that a new column has also been added there, showing the links. In our case, this means that an issue is linked to a category, and a category can be linked to many issues.

We have not yet achieved any direct benefits from linking, but this is about to change: With the help of the links, we can create statistical evaluations in a matter of seconds. For example, we can easily determine how high the total of all expenses in the category `Travel` is.

## Increasing the line height

First, increase the row height in the table `Categories`to see more of the links. You will find the corresponding option `{{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-row-height-default" >}}` in the row above the column name. You can also drag individual columns wider to see more content.

![](images/level1-row-height.png)

## Evaluations of the categories

Now create a new column in the table `Categories` to.

> Name: `Sum`
>
> Column type: `{{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-link-formulas" >}} Link formula`
>
> Formula used: `rollup`
>
> Link column used: `Expenses`
>
> Column used for the calculation: `{{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-number" >}} Amount`
>
> Calculation method `Sum`

![](images/lvl1-rollup.png)

Next, you can change the format of the `Sum` to Euro so that the totals displayed are formatted accordingly in Euro.

## Automatic calculation with every change

Isn't that fantastic? In the column `Sum` the total expenses for each category are always displayed automatically. Even if you click on other expenses in the `Expenses` the total is updated immediately.

Of course, that's not all. You could limit the analysis to individual years or add additional conditions. As you gain more experience with SeaTable, you will be able to create such evaluations with just a few clicks.

This brings us to the end of this section. Scroll to the end and skip to the sixth and penultimate topic of this online course.

{{< warning  headline="Statistical evaluations like a pro"  text="SeaTable offers many more options for the statistical analysis of your data. So you can look forward to the second online course, in which we will certainly examine this topic in more detail." />}}

## Help article with further information

- [Adjust row height]({{< relref "help/base-editor/ansichten/zeilenhoehe-anpassen" >}})
- [The roll-up formula]({{< relref "help/base-editor/formeln/die-rollup-formel" >}})

Commit message:

step-5-analyses-with-links, image-alt, all languages

src/content/help/erste-schritte/online-kurs-1/schritt-5-auswertungen-verknuepfungen/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Step 5: Evaluations using the links'
date: 2024-08-30
lastmod: '2024-09-05'
categories:
    - 'online-kurs'
author: 'cdb'
url: '/help/step-5-analyses-with-links'
aliases:
    - '/help/schritt-5-auswertungen-verknuepfungen'
seo:
    title: 'Step 5: Analyzing Data Using Links in SeaTable'
    description: 'Discover how to create powerful statistical analyses in SeaTable by linking tables and using rollup formulas for dynamic data summaries.'

---

We have now linked the data records from both tables. It is important that this link is not one-sided. If you go to the table `Categories` you will see that a new column has also been added there, showing the links. In our case, this means that an issue is linked to a category, and a category can be linked to many issues.

We have not yet achieved any direct benefits from linking, but this is about to change: With the help of the links, we can create statistical evaluations in a matter of seconds. For example, we can easily determine how high the total of all expenses in the category `Travel` is.

## Increasing the line height

First, increase the row height in the table `Categories`to see more of the links. You will find the corresponding option `{{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-row-height-default" >}}` in the row above the column name. You can also drag individual columns wider to see more content.

![Table view with adjusted row height for better visibility of links](images/level1-row-height.png)

## Evaluations of the categories

Now create a new column in the table `Categories` to.

> Name: `Sum`
>
> Column type: `{{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-link-formulas" >}} Link formula`
>
> Formula used: `rollup`
>
> Link column used: `Expenses`
>
> Column used for the calculation: `{{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-number" >}} Amount`
>
> Calculation method `Sum`

![“Sum” link formula column with rollup setting to sum linked amounts](images/lvl1-rollup.png)

Next, you can change the format of the `Sum` to Euro so that the totals displayed are formatted accordingly in Euro.

## Automatic calculation with every change

Isn't that fantastic? In the column `Sum` the total expenses for each category are always displayed automatically. Even if you click on other expenses in the `Expenses` the total is updated immediately.

Of course, that's not all. You could limit the analysis to individual years or add additional conditions. As you gain more experience with SeaTable, you will be able to create such evaluations with just a few clicks.

This brings us to the end of this section. Scroll to the end and skip to the sixth and penultimate topic of this online course.

{{< warning  headline="Statistical evaluations like a pro"  text="SeaTable offers many more options for the statistical analysis of your data. So you can look forward to the second online course, in which we will certainly examine this topic in more detail." />}}

## Help article with further information

- [Adjust row height]({{< relref "help/base-editor/ansichten/zeilenhoehe-anpassen" >}})
- [The roll-up formula]({{< relref "help/base-editor/formeln/die-rollup-formel" >}})
