src/content/templates/sales/appointment-booking/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Appointment Booking'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-16'
url: '/template/appointment-booking'
aliases: 
    - '/terminbuchung'
category: 'sales'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: '32d6342b2b43442ca4a4'
---

## Appointment bookings

Use this template to optimise the planning of appointments, meetings and events. The aim is to avoid the problematic back and forth when setting appointments. Instead of email chains and phone calls, you can define your availability in advance and your conversation partners choose a suitable appointment via a web form generated by SeaTable. They do not need a SeaTable account to book an appointment.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any doubts or questions, our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})is at your disposal.

Commit message:

Template Pages Title Tag, Meta & URL translations

src/content/templates/sales/appointment-booking/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Appointment Booking'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-16'
url: '/template/appointment-booking'
aliases: 
    - '/terminbuchung'
category: 'sales'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Appointment Booking Template: Easy Scheduling'
    description: 'Manage appointments, bookings and meetings online with this free, efficient scheduling template from SeaTable.'
template: '32d6342b2b43442ca4a4'
---

## Appointment bookings

Use this template to optimise the planning of appointments, meetings and events. The aim is to avoid the problematic back and forth when setting appointments. Instead of email chains and phone calls, you can define your availability in advance and your conversation partners choose a suitable appointment via a web form generated by SeaTable. They do not need a SeaTable account to book an appointment.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any doubts or questions, our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})is at your disposal.
