src/content/templates/operations/association-management/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Association management'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/association-management'
category: 'operations'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: '6ad94b534b8548c8a10a'
---

Your association administration is becoming increasingly complex and you are looking for a solution with which you can also reliably manage many association members and extensive workflows?

Membership data needs to be recorded quickly and efficiently and checked regularly. Everyone in your association, both the accountants and the other employees, should always have the best overview of members, courses, upcoming dates and much more. All this can be mapped in no time with SeaTable.

Simply enter your member data via aweb formand let it flow fully automatically into your SeaTable base as new members enter themselves via the web form. This way, you can always keep track of all the important data concerning your members, from their personal details to the courses they have taken and the other events they take part in.

With the help of the calendar plug-in, you and your employees will always have an overview of all upcoming events and organizational projects. You also want to create an invoice in less than 2 minutes? Nothing could be easier. With the page design plug-in, you can design an invoice template and apply it to every other invoice. You can then print it directly or save it as a PDF document and send it to your members by mail or email.

The Kanban view shows you all members as well as courses and events in compact tiles for a quick overview. The template is rounded off by adashboardthat shows you the most important figures on customers and the corresponding turnover. The map plug-in graphically displays the origin of your club members or sponsors, for example.

What are you waiting for? Get started today and optimize your club administration. You can read more about this in our blog article "How SeaTable makes club administration easier". Ourhelp sectionprovides answers to any questions you may have.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the i symbol after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Ourhelp sectionprovides answers to any questions you may have.

Commit message:

link to help section and i symbol

src/content/templates/operations/association-management/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Association management'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/association-management'
category: 'operations'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: '6ad94b534b8548c8a10a'
---

Your association administration is becoming increasingly complex and you are looking for a solution with which you can also reliably manage many association members and extensive workflows?

Membership data needs to be recorded quickly and efficiently and checked regularly. Everyone in your association, both the accountants and the other employees, should always have the best overview of members, courses, upcoming dates and much more. All this can be mapped in no time with SeaTable.

Simply enter your member data via aweb formand let it flow fully automatically into your SeaTable base as new members enter themselves via the web form. This way, you can always keep track of all the important data concerning your members, from their personal details to the courses they have taken and the other events they take part in.

With the help of the calendar plug-in, you and your employees will always have an overview of all upcoming events and organizational projects. You also want to create an invoice in less than 2 minutes? Nothing could be easier. With the page design plug-in, you can design an invoice template and apply it to every other invoice. You can then print it directly or save it as a PDF document and send it to your members by mail or email.

The Kanban view shows you all members as well as courses and events in compact tiles for a quick overview. The template is rounded off by adashboardthat shows you the most important figures on customers and the corresponding turnover. The map plug-in graphically displays the origin of your club members or sponsors, for example.

What are you waiting for? Get started today and optimize your club administration. You can read more about this in our blog article "How SeaTable makes club administration easier". our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})provides answers to any questions you may have.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})provides answers to any questions you may have.
