src/content/pages/industry-solutions/finanzplan-erstellen/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Create a financial plan: efficiently & without Excel chaos with SeaTable'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Create a financial plan: efficient & without Excel chaos | SeaTable'
    description: 'Efficient financial planning: keep an eye on figures and expenditure, make informed decisions and gain clarity with clear dashboards.'
date: '2025-08-05'
url: '/create-financial-plan'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'Creating a financial plan made easy'
      text: 'Create your financial plan effortlessly with SeaTable! This innovative platform combines the benefits of spreadsheets with the powerful features of modern cloud databases. Perfect for companies, start-ups and freelancers who want to create and optimize their financial plan.'
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: 8fa08d31d16c4a54a1bb
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes: 
        - curved
        - bg-seatable-blue
      title: "Create financial planning with SeaTable"
      subtitle: Create a financial plan online
      description: You benefit from a flexible, simple and collaborative solution that takes your company's financial plan to the next level. Get started now!
      items:
        - text: Create flexibly customizable financial plans
        - text: Automated data integration for P&L and cash flow forecasts
        - text: Create controlling and reports in just a few clicks
        - text: User-friendly Excel-like interface
        - text: Simple tool integration
        - text: GDPR-compliant
        - text: Fast implementation without IT thanks to no code
      image: /images/landing-page-finanzplan-erstellen.png
 
    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 3
      title: Integrated financial planning in the company
      subtitle: Liquidity planning, profitability forecast, financial analysis
      text: "With SeaTable, you use a standardized planning tool - from capital requirements and financing plans to financial analyses and reports. Let all relevant data flow together automatically in a single source of truth. Work together collaboratively in real time. Create maximum transparency thanks to integrated automation and notification functions."
      items:
      - icon: sack-dollar
        headline: Financial plan
        text: "Create a financial plan in days instead of weeks: With SeaTable you can plan faster and access current figures at any time." 

      - icon: chart-line
        headline: Profitability forecast
        text: "Plan ahead and set up automated notifications to detect deviations from the plan at an early stage."

      - icon: scale-balanced
        headline: Create an investment plan
        text: "Greater transparency and data integrity: link forecasting and budget to create a reliable investment plan." 

      - icon: chart-simple
        headline: Management Reports
        text: "Visualize complex financial data in clear analysis dashboards. Create meaningful reports with real-time data." 

      - icon: user-plus
        headline: Work collaboratively
        text: "Use SeaTable as a dynamic finance tool. Manage processes and tasks and collaborate in real time without losing data."
        
      - icon: terminal
        headline: Simply record data
        text: "Enter data, create a financial plan: Create a user-friendly finance frontend with our Universal App Builder."

    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 6
      title: Set up a financial plan without compromising on data protection
      subtitle: For secure financial data
      text: "Especially if you use a cloud solution and create your financial plan online, your data must be particularly well protected. Data protection and data security are our top priority. Because we make compromises when it comes to protecting your data - and neither should you when you draw up a financial plan."
      items:
      - icon: terminal
        headline: On-Premises
        text: "You don't want to store your data in the cloud? SeaTable Server offers the same range of functions."

      - icon: user-plus
        headline: Security settings
        text: "Set up individual access and editing rights and restrict access to sensitive data."

      - icon: fingerprint
        headline: Authentication and SSO
        text: "Use two-factor authentication and SSO for even greater data security." 
        
    - name: "banner-1"
      weight: 5
      title: Start your financial plan with just a few clicks
      orientation: (left, center, right)
      buttons: 
          - label: Register now for free and get started
            link: pages/registration
            id: 
    
    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 4
      title: Templates to get started with your optimal finance processes
      subtitle: Create financial plan template
      description: 'For a quick start, you will find free templates specifically for a financial plan in companies. You can flexibly customize and extend each template to fit your capital requirements and financing plan. Import templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.'
     
      items:
          - text: Write invoice
            image: /images/rechnung-erstellen-template.jpg
            image_alt: ""
          - text: Budget planning
            image: /images/budgetplanung-template.jpg
            image_alt: ""
          - text: Cost-benefit analysis
            image: /images/template-cost-benefit-analysis.jpg
            image_alt: ""
      buttons:
        - label: Discover all templates
          link: "templates"
    
    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 7
      title: SeaTable offers extensive functions in all price models
      subtitle: Cloud or self-hosted?
      description: 
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Perfect for companies that want to get started quickly and without an extensive IT infrastructure - flexible and scalable.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: For companies that want to retain full control over their data, SeaTable Server offers an on-premises option.
            image: /images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: For companies that need the simplicity of the cloud and the flexibility of a self-hosted system.  
            image: /images/asana-dedicated.jpg

    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 8
      title: Optimize your financial planning - with SeaTable  
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id: 
   
    - name: faq
      weight: 9
      title: FAQ - Create a financial plan with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'What sets SeaTable apart from other financial planning tools?'
            a: Our "Create Financial Planning" tool is characterized by easy implementation without additional IT effort, seamless integration into your existing systems, absolute GDPR compliance and individual customization options. You can combine reporting, analysis, your [profitability forecast]({{< relref "posts/rentabilitaetsvorschau" >}}), your [liquidity planning]({{< relref "posts/20250628_liquiditaetsplanung" >}}) or your capital requirements and financing plan in a single source of truth. Real-time collaboration in SeaTable helps finance teams work more efficiently and flexibly and plan more accurately. Also suitable for a financial plan in a startup.
          - q: 'Which companies is SeaTable suitable for?'
            a: 'Whether you want to create a financial plan for companies, a financial plan for small businesses or a financial plan for a startup: SeaTable is a suitable tool for companies of any size and complexity. Our pricing models are flexible and scalable, so you only pay for the features you actually need. This makes SeaTable the ideal tool for creating your financial plan online.'
          - q: How does SeaTable support real-time collaboration?
            a: SeaTable allows your entire team to work together seamlessly. You can set deadlines, assign tasks, automate workflows and control approval processes, making it easy to create your financial plan online. Automatic notifications allow everyone involved to keep track of deadlines and changes. This is just as helpful for a financial plan in a startup as it is in a large company.
          - q: Can SeaTable also be used to create an investment plan, for example?
            a: 'You can map all your finance processes in SeaTable without compromising your requirements. You can create an investment plan in SeaTable just as flexibly and collaboratively as you create financial plans or map your invoice management.'
          - q: 'How secure is sensitive financial and company data with SeaTable?'
            a: 'The protection of your data is our top priority. SeaTable Cloud is hosted exclusively on servers of a Swiss provider in Germany and is therefore fully GDPR compliant. When you create a financing plan with SeaTable, your data is safe.'
          - q: 'Can SeaTable be linked to other systems in the company?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable integrates easily with other accounting or payment service provider systems - either via the SeaTable API or automation tools. So you always have the choice: you can create your capital requirements and financing plan or an investment plan in SeaTable and link it to other tools, or use SeaTable for other use cases and processes.'
          - q: 'How long does it take to create a financial plan with SeaTable and is there a financial plan template?'
            a: "It only takes a few minutes to set up your SeaTable account - and that completes the implementation and you're ready to go. Thanks to the intuitive and user-friendly interface and various finance templates, you will be able to quickly create your first financial plan. If you are already using a financial plan template for Excel, you can simply import it. However, how much time you actually have to invest if you want to create a financial plan depends on various individual factors, so we cannot make a general statement on this."
          - q: 'Can SeaTable also be used free of charge?'
            a: 'Create a financial plan free of charge: If you want to set up a financial plan, SeaTable Free already offers all the functions you need. Depending on the complexity or data volume, however, we recommend taking out a Plus or Enterprise subscription. You will need the latter if you want to create a financing plan or draw up a financial plan and use the automation functions in SeaTable. If you create your financial plan online and your existing SeaTable subscription is no longer sufficient, you can easily change your subscription model at any time.'
---

Commit message:

Create Financial Plan, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/industry-solutions/finanzplan-erstellen/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Create a financial plan: efficiently & without Excel chaos with SeaTable'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Create a financial plan: efficient & without Excel chaos | SeaTable'
    description: 'Efficient financial planning: keep an eye on figures and expenditure, make informed decisions and gain clarity with clear dashboards.'
date: '2025-08-05'
url: '/create-financial-plan'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'Creating a financial plan made easy'
      text: 'Create your financial plan effortlessly with SeaTable! This innovative platform combines the benefits of spreadsheets with the powerful features of modern cloud databases. Perfect for companies, start-ups and freelancers who want to create and optimize their financial plan.'
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: 8fa08d31d16c4a54a1bb
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes: 
        - curved
        - bg-seatable-blue
      title: "Create financial planning with SeaTable"
      subtitle: Create a financial plan online
      description: You benefit from a flexible, simple and collaborative solution that takes your company's financial plan to the next level. Get started now!
      items:
        - text: Create flexibly customizable financial plans
        - text: Automated data integration for P&L and cash flow forecasts
        - text: Create controlling and reports in just a few clicks
        - text: User-friendly Excel-like interface
        - text: Simple tool integration
        - text: GDPR-compliant
        - text: Fast implementation without IT thanks to no code
      image: /images/landing-page-finanzplan-erstellen.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable interface for creating and analyzing a financial plan'
 
    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 3
      title: Integrated financial planning in the company
      subtitle: Liquidity planning, profitability forecast, financial analysis
      text: "With SeaTable, you use a standardized planning tool - from capital requirements and financing plans to financial analyses and reports. Let all relevant data flow together automatically in a single source of truth. Work together collaboratively in real time. Create maximum transparency thanks to integrated automation and notification functions."
      items:
      - icon: sack-dollar
        headline: Financial plan
        text: "Create a financial plan in days instead of weeks: With SeaTable you can plan faster and access current figures at any time." 

      - icon: chart-line
        headline: Profitability forecast
        text: "Plan ahead and set up automated notifications to detect deviations from the plan at an early stage."

      - icon: scale-balanced
        headline: Create an investment plan
        text: "Greater transparency and data integrity: link forecasting and budget to create a reliable investment plan." 

      - icon: chart-simple
        headline: Management Reports
        text: "Visualize complex financial data in clear analysis dashboards. Create meaningful reports with real-time data." 

      - icon: user-plus
        headline: Work collaboratively
        text: "Use SeaTable as a dynamic finance tool. Manage processes and tasks and collaborate in real time without losing data."
        
      - icon: terminal
        headline: Simply record data
        text: "Enter data, create a financial plan: Create a user-friendly finance frontend with our Universal App Builder."

    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 6
      title: Set up a financial plan without compromising on data protection
      subtitle: For secure financial data
      text: "Especially if you use a cloud solution and create your financial plan online, your data must be particularly well protected. Data protection and data security are our top priority. Because we make compromises when it comes to protecting your data - and neither should you when you draw up a financial plan."
      items:
      - icon: terminal
        headline: On-Premises
        text: "You don't want to store your data in the cloud? SeaTable Server offers the same range of functions."

      - icon: user-plus
        headline: Security settings
        text: "Set up individual access and editing rights and restrict access to sensitive data."

      - icon: fingerprint
        headline: Authentication and SSO
        text: "Use two-factor authentication and SSO for even greater data security." 
        
    - name: "banner-1"
      weight: 5
      title: Start your financial plan with just a few clicks
      orientation: (left, center, right)
      buttons: 
          - label: Register now for free and get started
            link: pages/registration
            id: 
    
    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 4
      title: Templates to get started with your optimal finance processes
      subtitle: Create financial plan template
      description: 'For a quick start, you will find free templates specifically for a financial plan in companies. You can flexibly customize and extend each template to fit your capital requirements and financing plan. Import templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.'
     
      items:
          - text: Write invoice
            image: /images/rechnung-erstellen-template.jpg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for creating and managing invoices"
          - text: Budget planning
            image: /images/budgetplanung-template.jpg
            image_alt: "SeaTable budget planning template for income and expenses"
          - text: Cost-benefit analysis
            image: /images/template-cost-benefit-analysis.jpg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for cost-benefit analysis of projects"
      buttons:
        - label: Discover all templates
          link: "templates"
    
    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 7
      title: SeaTable offers extensive functions in all price models
      subtitle: Cloud or self-hosted?
      description: 
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Perfect for companies that want to get started quickly and without an extensive IT infrastructure - flexible and scalable.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Cloud project plan template for planning finance-related projects'
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: For companies that want to retain full control over their data, SeaTable Server offers an on-premises option.
            image: /images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Server action plan template for financial measures'
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: For companies that need the simplicity of the cloud and the flexibility of a self-hosted system.  
            image: /images/asana-dedicated.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Dedicated environment for company-wide finance and planning processes'

    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 8
      title: Optimize your financial planning - with SeaTable  
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id: 
   
    - name: faq
      weight: 9
      title: FAQ - Create a financial plan with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'What sets SeaTable apart from other financial planning tools?'
            a: Our "Create Financial Planning" tool is characterized by easy implementation without additional IT effort, seamless integration into your existing systems, absolute GDPR compliance and individual customization options. You can combine reporting, analysis, your [profitability forecast]({{< relref "posts/rentabilitaetsvorschau" >}}), your [liquidity planning]({{< relref "posts/20250628_liquiditaetsplanung" >}}) or your capital requirements and financing plan in a single source of truth. Real-time collaboration in SeaTable helps finance teams work more efficiently and flexibly and plan more accurately. Also suitable for a financial plan in a startup.
          - q: 'Which companies is SeaTable suitable for?'
            a: 'Whether you want to create a financial plan for companies, a financial plan for small businesses or a financial plan for a startup: SeaTable is a suitable tool for companies of any size and complexity. Our pricing models are flexible and scalable, so you only pay for the features you actually need. This makes SeaTable the ideal tool for creating your financial plan online.'
          - q: How does SeaTable support real-time collaboration?
            a: SeaTable allows your entire team to work together seamlessly. You can set deadlines, assign tasks, automate workflows and control approval processes, making it easy to create your financial plan online. Automatic notifications allow everyone involved to keep track of deadlines and changes. This is just as helpful for a financial plan in a startup as it is in a large company.
          - q: Can SeaTable also be used to create an investment plan, for example?
            a: 'You can map all your finance processes in SeaTable without compromising your requirements. You can create an investment plan in SeaTable just as flexibly and collaboratively as you create financial plans or map your invoice management.'
          - q: 'How secure is sensitive financial and company data with SeaTable?'
            a: 'The protection of your data is our top priority. SeaTable Cloud is hosted exclusively on servers of a Swiss provider in Germany and is therefore fully GDPR compliant. When you create a financing plan with SeaTable, your data is safe.'
          - q: 'Can SeaTable be linked to other systems in the company?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable integrates easily with other accounting or payment service provider systems - either via the SeaTable API or automation tools. So you always have the choice: you can create your capital requirements and financing plan or an investment plan in SeaTable and link it to other tools, or use SeaTable for other use cases and processes.'
          - q: 'How long does it take to create a financial plan with SeaTable and is there a financial plan template?'
            a: "It only takes a few minutes to set up your SeaTable account - and that completes the implementation and you're ready to go. Thanks to the intuitive and user-friendly interface and various finance templates, you will be able to quickly create your first financial plan. If you are already using a financial plan template for Excel, you can simply import it. However, how much time you actually have to invest if you want to create a financial plan depends on various individual factors, so we cannot make a general statement on this."
          - q: 'Can SeaTable also be used free of charge?'
            a: 'Create a financial plan free of charge: If you want to set up a financial plan, SeaTable Free already offers all the functions you need. Depending on the complexity or data volume, however, we recommend taking out a Plus or Enterprise subscription. You will need the latter if you want to create a financing plan or draw up a financial plan and use the automation functions in SeaTable. If you create your financial plan online and your existing SeaTable subscription is no longer sufficient, you can easily change your subscription model at any time.'
---
