src/content/pages/product/overview/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'SeaTable Products'
seo:
    title: 'SeaTable products | Find the right solution for you'
    description: 'SeaTable offers flexible cloud, dedicated and on-premises solutions, perfectly tailored to your business requirements'
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/products'
aliases:
    - '/en/produkte/'
    - '/produkte/'

sections:
    - name: hero-2
      weight: 1
      classes:
          - bg-[#ece5e2]
      title: 'Find the right SeaTable No-Code solution for your company'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable Products'
      text: 'SeaTable has the right solution for you. Discover the three different SeaTable product offerings, compare their benefits, and find the best option for your needs.'

    - name: content-4
      title: 'The Flexible Solution for Your Business Requirements'
      subtitle: 'The Choice is Yours'
      text: 'SeaTable offers flexible solutions perfectly tailored to your business requirements. Whether you need an out-of-the-box cloud solution, a dedicated and individualized environment, or complete control over your data on your own server.'
      weight: 2
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: ''
            link: pages/product/seatable-cloud
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: ''
            link: pages/product/seatable-dedicated
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: ''
            link: pages/product/seatable-server

    - name: content-1
      weight: 4
      title: 'The Ready-to-Use Solution'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable Cloud'
      description: 'SeaTable Cloud is ideal for companies and teams that want to get started quickly without having to worry about maintenance or IT infrastructure. It offers direct access to all SeaTable functions via the cloud.'
      classes:
          - bg-gray-100
          - curved
      items:
          - headline: Ready to use immediately
            text: Ready to go without any installation. Maintenance included. We take care of the operation for you. Usable immediately and at any time.
          - headline: Flexible and Scalable
            text: Flexible and scalable for growing requirements. Accessible from anywhere. Adapts to your requirements.
          - headline: Manageable Costs
            text: Free registration. Simple monthly costs.
      image: '/images/Produktuebersicht-SeaTable-Cloud.png'
      buttons:
          - label: More about SeaTable Cloud
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-cloud'

    - name: content-12
      weight: 5
      title: 'Your Individual Instance in the Cloud'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable Dedicated'
      description: 'With SeaTable Dedicated, you get a dedicated instance in the cloud that is individually tailored to your needs. This option gives you full control and increased security while still leveraging the benefits of the cloud.'
      classes:
          - bg-white
          - curved
      items:
          - text: An exclusive instance just for your company
          - text: Flexible configuration according to your requirements
          - text: Accessible via a domain of your choice
          - text: Guaranteed performance and availability
          - text: Always the latest SeaTable version
          - text: Support included
      image: '/images/Produktuebersicht-SeaTable-Dedicated.png'
      buttons:
          - label: More about SeaTable Dedicated
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-dedicated'

    - name: content-12
      weight: 6
      classes:
          - bg-gray-100
          - curved
      title: 'Full Control on Your Own Server'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable On-Premises'
      description: 'With SeaTable Dedicated, you get a dedicated instance in the cloud that is individually tailored to your needs. This option gives you full control and increased security while still leveraging the benefits of the cloud.'
      items:
          - text: An exclusive instance just for your company
          - text: Flexible configuration according to your requirements
          - text: Accessible via a domain of your choice
          - text: Guaranteed performance and availability
          - text: Always the latest SeaTable version
          - text: Support included
      image: '/images/Produktuebersicht-SeaTable-On-Premises.png'
      image_position: 'left'
      buttons:
          - label: More about SeaTable Dedicated
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-dedicated'

    - name: product-comparison-table
      weight: 7
      title: The three SeaTable products at a glance
      subtitle: Comparison of our products

    - name: banner-4
      weight: 8
      title: Fair pricing for research, education, and non-profit organizations
      subtitle: 'Discounts for the public sector'
      text: 'SeaTable offers fair and transparent pricing for **educational institutions**, **research institutions**, **public institutions**, and **non-profit organizations** have access to state-of-the-art technology without overstretching their budget. Benefit from powerful no-code solutions at discounted prices.'
      buttons:
          - label: Contact us
            link: 'pages/contact'
            style: primary
    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 9
      title: 'Individual Workflows and Automations with SeaTable'
      subtitle: 'Integration Made Easy'
      description: 'With SeaTable, you can not only create custom workflows, but also easily integrate your existing systems and set up automations. Thanks to the integration with tools like n8n, Make, and Zapier, as well as the ability to connect your own systems via the API, you can design your processes quickly and efficiently.'
      items:
          - image: /images/logos/zapier.svg
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Learn more about integrations'
            link: 'pages/integrations'

    - name: 'content-9'
      weight: 10
      title: SeaTable Compared to Competitors
      subtitle: Advantages
      description: Compared to other solutions on the market, SeaTable offers crucial advantages in terms of flexibility, security, and pricing. Whether you compare with **Airtable**, **Asana**, or **Google Sheets** – SeaTable offers unique selling points.
      items:
          - headline: 'Flexibility'
            text: 'SeaTable is available both in the cloud and on-premises, guaranteeing maximum control and adaptability for various use cases.'
            icon: toggle-off
          - headline: Efficient Business Processes
            text: Our no-code platform helps you save time and resources by allowing you to focus on what’s essential. With SeaTable, you increase your company’s efficiency and meet the challenges of continuous innovation.
            icon: medal
          - headline: Scalability
            text: SeaTable is ideal for both small teams and large companies. Our platform grows with your requirements and offers a solution that scales with your company.
            icon: up-right-and-down-left-from-center
          - headline: Integration Capability
            text: Use our APIs and SDKs for easy integration. SeaTable seamlessly integrates with a variety of third-party tools, so you can continue to use your existing systems and processes.
            icon: leaf
          - headline: User Friendliness
            text: Thanks to the intuitive interface and the WYSIWYG app builder, you can create applications without programming knowledge. SeaTable makes it easy to create complex databases and apps that are precisely tailored to your needs.
            icon: signature
          - headline: GDPR Compliance
            text: SeaTable offers robust security features and ensures that your data is stored securely and in compliance with the latest data protection guidelines. Our no-code platform guarantees that your data is protected in accordance with GDPR requirements.
            icon: shield-halved

    # TODO: diesen block noch bauen.
    #- name: content-99
    #  weight: 11

    - name: content-22
      weight: 12
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Support and services - your partners on the road to efficiency
      subtitle: Support
      text: In addition to the powerful platform, SeaTable offers extensive support and services to assist you with implementation and operation. Our support team is on hand to ensure you get the most out of SeaTable.
      buttons:
          - label: To our support offer
            link: pages/support

    - name: content-22
      weight: 3
      title: Get Started with SeaTable Now
      subtitle: Choose the right solution
      text: 'Choose the solution that best suits your requirements. Whether Cloud, Dedicated, or On-Premises – SeaTable offers you the flexibility, security, and performance you need for your company.'
      buttons:
          - label: Register now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
            id: en-product-overview-registration-content-22
          - label: Contact sales
            link: 'pages/contact'
            style: secondary
---

Commit message:

products, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/product/overview/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'SeaTable Products'
seo:
    title: 'SeaTable products | Find the right solution for you'
    description: 'SeaTable offers flexible cloud, dedicated and on-premises solutions, perfectly tailored to your business requirements'
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/products'
aliases:
    - '/en/produkte/'
    - '/produkte/'

sections:
    - name: hero-2
      weight: 1
      classes:
          - bg-[#ece5e2]
      title: 'Find the right SeaTable No-Code solution for your company'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable Products'
      text: 'SeaTable has the right solution for you. Discover the three different SeaTable product offerings, compare their benefits, and find the best option for your needs.'

    - name: content-4
      title: 'The Flexible Solution for Your Business Requirements'
      subtitle: 'The Choice is Yours'
      text: 'SeaTable offers flexible solutions perfectly tailored to your business requirements. Whether you need an out-of-the-box cloud solution, a dedicated and individualized environment, or complete control over your data on your own server.'
      weight: 2
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: ''
            link: pages/product/seatable-cloud
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: ''
            link: pages/product/seatable-dedicated
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: ''
            link: pages/product/seatable-server

    - name: content-1
      weight: 4
      title: 'The Ready-to-Use Solution'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable Cloud'
      description: 'SeaTable Cloud is ideal for companies and teams that want to get started quickly without having to worry about maintenance or IT infrastructure. It offers direct access to all SeaTable functions via the cloud.'
      classes:
          - bg-gray-100
          - curved
      items:
          - headline: Ready to use immediately
            text: Ready to go without any installation. Maintenance included. We take care of the operation for you. Usable immediately and at any time.
          - headline: Flexible and Scalable
            text: Flexible and scalable for growing requirements. Accessible from anywhere. Adapts to your requirements.
          - headline: Manageable Costs
            text: Free registration. Simple monthly costs.
      image: '/images/Produktuebersicht-SeaTable-Cloud.png'
      image_alt: 'SeaTable Cloud – ready-to-use no-code solution in the cloud'
      buttons:
          - label: More about SeaTable Cloud
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-cloud'

    - name: content-12
      weight: 5
      title: 'Your Individual Instance in the Cloud'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable Dedicated'
      description: 'With SeaTable Dedicated, you get a dedicated instance in the cloud that is individually tailored to your needs. This option gives you full control and increased security while still leveraging the benefits of the cloud.'
      classes:
          - bg-white
          - curved
      items:
          - text: An exclusive instance just for your company
          - text: Flexible configuration according to your requirements
          - text: Accessible via a domain of your choice
          - text: Guaranteed performance and availability
          - text: Always the latest SeaTable version
          - text: Support included
      image: '/images/Produktuebersicht-SeaTable-Dedicated.png'
      image_alt: 'SeaTable Dedicated – individual cloud instance with full control'
      buttons:
          - label: More about SeaTable Dedicated
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-dedicated'

    - name: content-12
      weight: 6
      classes:
          - bg-gray-100
          - curved
      title: 'Full Control on Your Own Server'
      subtitle: 'SeaTable On-Premises'
      description: 'With SeaTable Dedicated, you get a dedicated instance in the cloud that is individually tailored to your needs. This option gives you full control and increased security while still leveraging the benefits of the cloud.'
      items:
          - text: An exclusive instance just for your company
          - text: Flexible configuration according to your requirements
          - text: Accessible via a domain of your choice
          - text: Guaranteed performance and availability
          - text: Always the latest SeaTable version
          - text: Support included
      image: '/images/Produktuebersicht-SeaTable-On-Premises.png'
      image_position: 'left'
      image_alt: 'SeaTable On-Premises – complete control on your own server'
      buttons:
          - label: More about SeaTable Dedicated
            link: 'pages/product/seatable-dedicated'

    - name: product-comparison-table
      weight: 7
      title: The three SeaTable products at a glance
      subtitle: Comparison of our products

    - name: banner-4
      weight: 8
      title: Fair pricing for research, education, and non-profit organizations
      subtitle: 'Discounts for the public sector'
      text: 'SeaTable offers fair and transparent pricing for **educational institutions**, **research institutions**, **public institutions**, and **non-profit organizations** have access to state-of-the-art technology without overstretching their budget. Benefit from powerful no-code solutions at discounted prices.'
      buttons:
          - label: Contact us
            link: 'pages/contact'
            style: primary
    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 9
      title: 'Individual Workflows and Automations with SeaTable'
      subtitle: 'Integration Made Easy'
      description: 'With SeaTable, you can not only create custom workflows, but also easily integrate your existing systems and set up automations. Thanks to the integration with tools like n8n, Make, and Zapier, as well as the ability to connect your own systems via the API, you can design your processes quickly and efficiently.'
      items:
          - image: /images/logos/zapier.svg
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Learn more about integrations'
            link: 'pages/integrations'

    - name: 'content-9'
      weight: 10
      title: SeaTable Compared to Competitors
      subtitle: Advantages
      description: Compared to other solutions on the market, SeaTable offers crucial advantages in terms of flexibility, security, and pricing. Whether you compare with **Airtable**, **Asana**, or **Google Sheets** – SeaTable offers unique selling points.
      items:
          - headline: 'Flexibility'
            text: 'SeaTable is available both in the cloud and on-premises, guaranteeing maximum control and adaptability for various use cases.'
            icon: toggle-off
          - headline: Efficient Business Processes
            text: Our no-code platform helps you save time and resources by allowing you to focus on what’s essential. With SeaTable, you increase your company’s efficiency and meet the challenges of continuous innovation.
            icon: medal
          - headline: Scalability
            text: SeaTable is ideal for both small teams and large companies. Our platform grows with your requirements and offers a solution that scales with your company.
            icon: up-right-and-down-left-from-center
          - headline: Integration Capability
            text: Use our APIs and SDKs for easy integration. SeaTable seamlessly integrates with a variety of third-party tools, so you can continue to use your existing systems and processes.
            icon: leaf
          - headline: User Friendliness
            text: Thanks to the intuitive interface and the WYSIWYG app builder, you can create applications without programming knowledge. SeaTable makes it easy to create complex databases and apps that are precisely tailored to your needs.
            icon: signature
          - headline: GDPR Compliance
            text: SeaTable offers robust security features and ensures that your data is stored securely and in compliance with the latest data protection guidelines. Our no-code platform guarantees that your data is protected in accordance with GDPR requirements.
            icon: shield-halved

    # TODO: diesen block noch bauen.
    #- name: content-99
    #  weight: 11

    - name: content-22
      weight: 12
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Support and services - your partners on the road to efficiency
      subtitle: Support
      text: In addition to the powerful platform, SeaTable offers extensive support and services to assist you with implementation and operation. Our support team is on hand to ensure you get the most out of SeaTable.
      buttons:
          - label: To our support offer
            link: pages/support

    - name: content-22
      weight: 3
      title: Get Started with SeaTable Now
      subtitle: Choose the right solution
      text: 'Choose the solution that best suits your requirements. Whether Cloud, Dedicated, or On-Premises – SeaTable offers you the flexibility, security, and performance you need for your company.'
      buttons:
          - label: Register now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
            id: en-product-overview-registration-content-22
          - label: Contact sales
            link: 'pages/contact'
            style: secondary
---
