src/content/help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/anlegen-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Creating a common data set'
date: 2022-11-21
lastmod: '2024-06-13'
categories:
    - 'gemeinsame-datensaetze'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/anlegen-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes'
---

In each base belonging to a group, you can create a table view as a **common record**. The prerequisite for this is that you are the owner or administrator of the group (and not just a member). You can then import the shared record, including its specific filtering and sorting conditions, as a new table into any other base in the group.

{{< warning headline="No shared data records in private bases" text="Shared data records are only available in **Bases of a group** is available. In a private base, the function for creating a shared data record is grayed out." />}}

![](images/common-dataset-only-in-group.png)

## Creating a shared data record

![Creating a shared data record](images/create-a-common-dataset-5.png)  
![Creating a shared data record](images/create-a-common-dataset-2-1.png)

1. Open any **table view** in a Base that belongs to one of your groups.
2. Click on the **three dots**.
3. Click **Publish as shared record**.
4. **Name** the common data set.
5. Confirm with **Submit**.

## Overview of all common records

You will find all the shared data records you have created and released to you on the start page under **Shared data record**.

![Overview common data sets](images/overview-common-datasets-5.png)

Commit message:

Bugfixes release/share & common datasets

src/content/help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/anlegen-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Creating a common data set'
date: 2022-11-21
lastmod: '2024-06-13'
categories:
    - 'gemeinsame-datensaetze'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/anlegen-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes'
---

In each base belonging to a group, you can create a table view as a **common dataset**. The prerequisite for this is that you are the owner or administrator of the group (and not just a member). You can then import the common dataset, including its specific filtering and sorting conditions, as a new table into any other base in the group.

{{< warning headline="No common datasets in private bases" text="Common datasets are only available in **Bases of a group**. In a private base, the function for creating a common dataset is grayed out." />}}

![](images/common-dataset-only-in-group.png)

## Creating a common dataset

![Creating a common dataset](images/create-a-common-dataset-5.png)  
![Creating a common dataset](images/create-a-common-dataset-2-1.png)

1. Open any **table view** in a Base that belongs to one of your groups.
2. Click on the **three dots**.
3. Click **Publish as common dataset**.
4. **Name** the common dataset.
5. Confirm with **Submit**.

## Overview of all common datasets

You will find all the common datasets that you have created and that have been shared with you on the start page under **common datasets**.

![Overview common datasets](images/overview-common-datasets-5.png)
