src/content/help/startseite/freigaben/einladungs-link-erklaert/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Create invitation link'
date: 2022-11-07
lastmod: '2023-01-17'
categories:
    - 'freigaben'
author: 'vge'
url: '/help/invitation-link-explained-seatable'
aliases:
    - '/help/einladungs-link-erklaert'
seo:
    title: 'Create invitation link in SeaTable – secure shared access'
    description: 'Set up an invitation link in SeaTable to securely share your base with read or write access, password and expiration. Collaborate with new users easily.'
---

Using the **invitation link**, you can share bases with another person in SeaTable without that person becoming part of your team.

The person must **log in** or **register to** get access to the base you send. In doing so, they become an **administrator** themselves and can create their own team. However, you can still work together on the base you shared.

## To create an invitation link for a base

![Invitation link explained](images/Freigabelinks-erklaert.gif)

1. Go to the **home page of SeaTable**.
2. Move the mouse cursor to the **base** you want to split and click the **three dots** that appear on the right.
3. Select the **Share** option.
4. Set whether you want to assign **read and write permissions** or **read-only permissions**.
5. Set a **password** if needed and/or choose an **expiration date for** the link.
6. Click **Create**.
7. You can now copy and send the **invitation link**.

## Security aspects of invitation links

An **invitation link** also gives anyone who has access to the link access to the contents of the base for which the link was created. To make access more secure, you should add a **password** and/or **expiration date to** the link.

It is also recommended to monitor all links regularly. You can view a list of all invitation links in the **team administration** and also delete them there.

Commit message:

add hint with permission to create-invite-link page

src/content/help/startseite/freigaben/einladungs-link-erklaert/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Create invitation link'
date: 2022-11-07
lastmod: '2023-01-17'
categories:
    - 'freigaben'
author: 'vge'
url: '/help/invitation-link-explained-seatable'
aliases:
    - '/help/einladungs-link-erklaert'
seo:
    title: 'Create invitation link in SeaTable – secure shared access'
    description: 'Set up an invitation link in SeaTable to securely share your base with read or write access, password and expiration. Collaborate with new users easily.'
---

Using the **invitation link**, you can share bases with another person in SeaTable without that person becoming part of your team.

The person must **log in** or **register to** get access to the base you send. In doing so, they become an **administrator** themselves and can create their own team. However, you can still work together on the base you shared.

{{< warning headline="Team permission required" >}}

A team administrator can globally disable the use of invitation links in team management. Links can still be created, but attempting to open them will result in an error.

For more details, see the article [Allow sharing of bases via invitation link]({{< relref "help/teamverwaltung/bases/freigabe-von-bases-per-einladungslink-erlauben" >}}).

{{< /warning >}}

## To create an invitation link for a base

![Invitation link explained](images/Freigabelinks-erklaert.gif)

1. Go to the **home page of SeaTable**.
2. Move the mouse cursor to the **base** you want to split and click the **three dots** that appear on the right.
3. Select the **Share** option.
4. Set whether you want to assign **read and write permissions** or **read-only permissions**.
5. Set a **password** if needed and/or choose an **expiration date for** the link.
6. Click **Create**.
7. You can now copy and send the **invitation link**.

## Security aspects of invitation links

An **invitation link** also gives anyone who has access to the link access to the contents of the base for which the link was created. To make access more secure, you should add a **password** and/or **expiration date to** the link.

It is also recommended to monitor all links regularly. You can view a list of all invitation links in the **team administration** and also delete them there.
