src/content/templates/software-development/product-launch/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Product Launch'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/product-launch'
category: 'software-development'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: '61e4639f122f45a2bcba'
---

A successful product launch is the result of long, hard work. For the market and your customers, it looks like a rocket launch that doesn't take long - but for yourself, this launch has taken a long time. The product launch is a long-term process that includes the entire period of conceptualisation, development and marketing.

In order for you to keep track of individual development stages throughout the process and also for all your employees to know what still needs to be done, a structured overview with all data is helpful. Our template helps you to control all processes running in parallel and to reduce the complexity of tasks to a minimum.

Assign a responsible person to all product specifications who can regularly update the status of the various measures. A long-term organisation of marketing measures combined with the development status of the products is thus possible without problems.

Find out how your product launch is guaranteed to work with SeaTable in ourblog article.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you have any questions? our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})will help you.

Commit message:

Template Pages title tag, meta & URL translations

src/content/templates/software-development/product-launch/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Product Launch'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/product-launch'
category: 'software-development'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Plan a Product Launch Efficiently'
    description: 'Master your product launch: use this template to organize features, tasks and marketing activities in one place.'
template: '61e4639f122f45a2bcba'
---

A successful product launch is the result of long, hard work. For the market and your customers, it looks like a rocket launch that doesn't take long - but for yourself, this launch has taken a long time. The product launch is a long-term process that includes the entire period of conceptualisation, development and marketing.

In order for you to keep track of individual development stages throughout the process and also for all your employees to know what still needs to be done, a structured overview with all data is helpful. Our template helps you to control all processes running in parallel and to reduce the complexity of tasks to a minimum.

Assign a responsible person to all product specifications who can regularly update the status of the various measures. A long-term organisation of marketing measures combined with the development status of the products is thus possible without problems.

Find out how your product launch is guaranteed to work with SeaTable in ourblog article.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you have any questions? our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})will help you.
