src/content/help/startseite/freigaben/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Create custom share'
date: 2023-01-16
lastmod: '2023-02-22'
categories:
    - 'freigaben'
author: 'vge'
url: '/help/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen'
---

{{< required-version "Plus" "Enterprise" >}}

A custom share permission allows you to share **multiple tables and views** from a Base at the same time. This saves you a lot of work if you want to share numerous tables and views with your team members, but not an entire base.

Despite this bundled sharing, you can define the desired **permission** in detail, as you can select individually for each table and view whether a **read and write** share or only a **read share** should be granted.

For example, you can specify that you grant read and write access to the first table of a base, read-only access to the second table, and no access at all to any other tables.

After you create a custom share, you can send it to **individual team members** or **entire groups**.

## To create a custom share permission

You have **two** ways to share individual tables and views of a Base:

- From the **home** page
- Via the **Share icon** in Base

### From the home page

![Create custom share](images/Benutzerdefinierte-Freigabe-erstellen.gif)

1. Go to the **home page of SeaTable**.
2. Move the mouse cursor to the base you want to split and click the **three dots** that appear on the right.
3. Click **Share**.
4. Select the **Custom share permission** menu item.
5. Click **Add Permission**.
6. Give the permission a **name** and add a **description**.
7. Place **check marks** next to each table and view you want to share, deciding whether you want to assign **read and write** permissions or **read-only perm** issions.

### Via the Share icon in Base

![Sharing individual spreadsheets from the home page](images/share-single-tablesheets-from-the-base-options.png)

1. Open the **base** from which you want to share individual tables or views.
2. In the top right corner of the **Base options**, click **Share** {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-share" >}}.
3. Afterwards the same **share window** opens as in the first way. Follow the **click instructions** above from step 4 to create the share.

## Send the share to users or groups

The created share permission is now available as an option under **Share for User** or **Share for Group** in the Permissions. To send the custom share, proceed as follows:

1. In the left column of the Share window, click **Share for Group** or **Share for User**.
2. Select the **group** or **users** you want to send the custom share to.
3. In the **Permissions** field, you can now select the previously created **share permission** under the respective name.
4. Confirm the release with **Submit**.

![Share individual spreadsheets of a base](images/share-sinlge-table-sheets-to-a-group-1.gif)

For detailed explanations of what you should consider when sharing with users or groups, see the following articles:

- [Release a base to a user]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/anlegen-einer-benutzerfreigabe" >}})
- [Release a base to a group]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/eine-base-an-eine-gruppe-freigeben" >}})

## Consequences of the release

Shared tables and views can be found in the group's or user's **workspace** on the **home** **page**. They are always displayed with the note **Shared**.

![Individual spreadsheets of a base shared with a group](images/how-shared-single-table-sheets-are-marked.png)

Tables and views that are shared for **reading** only can consequently **only** be seen and **not** edited. If you click around in the table, nothing happens:

![Single spreadsheet that has been shared read-only to a group](images/shared-table-pages-only-read.gif)

Tables and views that are shared for **reading and writing**, on the other hand, you can both view and **edit**. Your changes are visible to all users with access to the table:

![Single spreadsheet shared read and write to a group](images/shared-table-pages-read-and-write.gif)

{{< warning  headline="Attention"  text="Please note that **changes** made by other users (with write permission) in the tables or views you share will also be **applied** to you." />}}

## Edit custom share permissions

You can change custom share permissions after the fact by **removing** individual **tables and views** from the share again or **adjusting** the **type of share**.

1. Click **Custom Share Permissions** and hover over the **permission** you want to customize.
2. Click on the **pencil icon that** appears {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-rename" >}}.
3. Now you can change the **name** and **description of** the permission.
4. Below you have the possibility to remove the checkmarks for individual **tables** and **views of** the base or to adjust whether they should be released for **reading and writing** or only for **reading**.
5. Confirm with **Submit** to save the **release authorization**.

## Limitations

- You can share tables and views **only** with groups you are already a **member of**.
- You can share tables and views of bases you **created yourself** at any time, while tables and views of bases belonging to a group can be shared with other groups or users only by the **owners** and **administrators**.

## Frequently asked questions

{{< faq "When does a custom share make sense?" >}}In SeaTable you should always enter related records in the same base. Now, if you want to **share** only **a part of the data** with someone, custom shares are the way to go.
{{< /faq >}}
{{< faq "Is it possible to share a custom share via a link?" >}}**No**, you can currently only send custom shares to a **team member** or **group**.

{{< /faq >}}

Commit message:

Bugfixes release/share & common datasets

src/content/help/startseite/freigaben/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Create a custom sharing permission'
date: 2023-01-16
lastmod: '2023-02-22'
categories:
    - 'freigaben'
author: 'vge'
url: '/help/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen'
---

{{< required-version "Plus" "Enterprise" >}}

A custom sharing permission allows you to share **multiple tables and views** from a Base at the same time. This saves you a lot of work if you want to share numerous tables and views with your team members, but not an entire base.

Despite this bundled sharing, you can define the desired **permission** in detail, as you can select individually for each table and view whether a **read and write** share or only a **read share** should be granted.

For example, you can specify that you grant read and write access to the first table of a base, read-only access to the second table, and no access at all to any other tables.

After you create a custom share, you can send it to **individual team members** or **entire groups**.

## To create a custom sharing permission

You have **two** ways to share individual tables and views of a Base:

- From the **home page**
- Via the **Share icon** within a Base

### From the home page

![Create custom share](images/Benutzerdefinierte-Freigabe-erstellen.gif)

1. Go to the **home page of SeaTable**.
2. Move the mouse cursor to the base you want to split and click the **three dots** that appear on the right.
3. Click **Share**.
4. Select the **Custom sharing permission** menu item.
5. Click **Add Permission**.
6. Give the permission a **name** and add a **description**.
7. Place **check marks** next to each table and view you want to share, deciding whether you want to assign **read and write** permissions or **read-only perm** issions.

### Via the Share icon in a Base

![Sharing individual spreadsheets from the home page](images/share-single-tablesheets-from-the-base-options.png)

1. Open the **base** from which you want to share individual tables or views.
2. In the top right corner of the **Base options**, click **Share** {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-share" >}}.
3. Afterwards the same **share window** opens as in the first way. Follow the **click instructions** above from step 4 to create the share.

## Send the share to users or groups

The created share permission is now available as an option under **Share for User** or **Share for Group** in the Permissions. To send the custom share, proceed as follows:

1. In the left column of the Share window, click **Share for Group** or **Share for User**.
2. Select the **group** or **users** you want to send the custom share to.
3. In the **Permissions** field, you can now select the previously created **share permission** under the respective name.
4. Confirm with **Submit**.

![Share individual spreadsheets of a base](images/share-sinlge-table-sheets-to-a-group-1.gif)

For detailed explanations of what you should consider when sharing with users or groups, see the following articles:

- [Share a base with a user]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/anlegen-einer-benutzerfreigabe" >}})
- [Share a base with a group]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/eine-base-an-eine-gruppe-freigeben" >}})

## Consequences of the share

Shared tables and views can be found in the group's or user's **workspace** on the **home page**. They are always displayed with the note **Shared**.

![Individual spreadsheets of a base shared with a group](images/how-shared-single-table-sheets-are-marked.png)

Tables and views that are shared for **reading** only can consequently **only** be seen and **not** edited. If you click around in the table, nothing happens:

![Single spreadsheet that has been shared read-only to a group](images/shared-table-pages-only-read.gif)

Tables and views that are shared for **reading and writing**, on the other hand, you can both view and **edit**. Your changes are visible to all users with access to the table:

![Single spreadsheet shared read and write to a group](images/shared-table-pages-read-and-write.gif)

{{< warning  headline="Attention"  text="Please note that **changes** made by other users (with write permission) in the tables or views you share will also be **applied** to you." />}}

## Edit custom sharing permissions

You can change custom sharing permissions after the fact by **removing** individual **tables and views** from the share again or **adjusting** the **type of share**.

1. Click **Custom Sharing Permissions** and hover over the **permission** you want to customize.
2. Click on the **pencil icon** that appears {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-rename" >}}.
3. Now you can change the **name** and **description** of the permission.
4. Below you have the possibility to remove the checkmarks for individual **tables** and **views** of the base or to adjust whether they should be shared for **reading and writing** or only for **reading**.
5. Confirm with **Submit** to save the **authorization**.

## Limitations

- You can share tables and views **only** with groups you are already a **member of**.
- You can share tables and views of bases you **created yourself** at any time, while tables and views of bases belonging to a group can be shared with other groups or users only by the **owners** and **administrators**.

## Frequently asked questions

{{< faq "When does a custom share make sense?" >}}In SeaTable you should always enter related records in the same base. Now, if you want to **share** only **a part of the data** with someone, custom shares are the way to go.
{{< /faq >}}
{{< faq "Is it possible to share a custom share via a link?" >}}**No**, you can currently only send custom shares to a **team member** or **group**.

{{< /faq >}}
