src/content/templates/real-estate/construction-schedule/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Construction schedule'
description: 'Your entire construction project at a glance: This digital planning solution bundles all deadlines, trades and costs in one central location, visualises schedules and tasks in real time and facilitates collaboration and communication within the team.'
date: '2025-10-28'
url: '/templates/construction schedule'
category: 'real-estate'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Construction schedule template: Use the app for free'
    description: 'Digital construction schedule template: Keep track of deadlines, trades and costs - with SeaTable.'
template: 'ef8bfa0896864e698655'

type: pages
sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'Professional construction schedule template'
      text: "Keep track of your construction project at all times - without confusing spreadsheets. With SeaTable's free construction schedule template, you can manage your construction project easily and transparently."
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: ef8bfa0896864e698655
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free and use the template
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
    
    - name: "content-27"
      weight: 2
      title: 'What your construction schedule template can do for you'
      subtitle: Overview, flexibility, transparency
      text: 
      items:
        - icon: 'pencil'
          headline: 'Flexibility'
          text: 'Simply adapt the template to your construction project - without programming knowledge.'
        - icon: 'lock-open'
          headline: 'Transparency'
          text: 'Control all trades and work steps in a central overview.'
        - icon: 'list'
          headline: 'Overview'
          text: 'Always stay up to date with visual schedules.'
        - icon: 'chart-line'
          headline: 'Control'
          text: 'Keep an eye on schedules and costs with dashboards and recognize risks immediately.'
        - icon: 'comment'
          headline: 'Communication'
          text: 'Use integrated notifications and comments for greater transparency.'
        - icon: 'people-group'
          headline: 'Collaboration'
          text: 'Share your plan with the craftsmen and maintain data in real time.' 

    - name: "content-12"
      weight: 5
      classes:
        - curved
        - [bg-gray-200, bg-seatable-blue]
      title: 'Construction schedule template from SeaTable'
      subtitle: 'Efficient construction schedule software'
      description: "A locally saved schedule like in Excel may be quick to create - but it is non-transparent and inefficient. With SeaTable's construction schedule software, you benefit from many advantages that enable smooth construction."
      items:
      - text: 'Up-to-date at all times: changes can be entered at any time and are immediately visible to everyone.'
      - text: 'Access from anywhere: With SeaTable as a cloud solution, you always have access to your planning.'
      - text: 'Share with trades: Give everyone involved access to relevant information.'
      - text: 'Visual presentation: Display your data clearly with plugins, views and dashboards'
      - text: 'Security: SeaTable is GDPR-compliant and is hosted exclusively on servers in Germany.'
      image_position: [left]
      image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_01.jpg'
      image_alt: 'Construction schedule template in table view'

    - name: "content-13"
      weight: 18
      class:
       - curved
       - bg-gray-100
      title: 'Construction schedule template for overview and safety'
      subtitle: 'Full control'
      description: 'SeaTable is a modern no-code database with Universal App Builder and offers all the functions you need for a digital construction schedule. So you can manage risks effectively.'
      box-position: [right!]
      items:
      - headline: Risk management
        text: Avoid unnecessary delays or exploding costs. If you use the SeaTable template for your house construction schedule, you can avoid unpleasant surprises and actively manage risks.
      - headline: Transparency
        text: This template makes it easier to communicate with third parties. Because having all information structured and up-to-date avoids misunderstandings and saves time. This is particularly advantageous when communicating with tradespeople. 

    - name: "content-25"
      weight: 10
      title: "The advantages of SeaTable's construction schedule template"
      subtitle: 'Everything at a glance - always up-to-date'
      items:
      - headline: 'Simple planning thanks to visual representation'
        text: 'Keeping an overview in a purely tabular construction schedule like in Excel is tedious. In SeaTable, you can visualize your project with our timeline plugin at no extra cost or effort. This allows you to perfectly coordinate all deadlines.'
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_02.jpg'
        image_alt: 'Free construction schedule template online with SeaTable, spreadsheet, customizable, share with planners and tradesmen, high data protection, and mobile access'
      - headline: 'An overview of all trades'
        text: 'Link all work directly to the contracted company in the "Contact" table. This allows you to see immediately whether an order has already been placed and what other work this company is to carry out. Contact details are immediately available in case of questions.'
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_03.jpg'
        image_alt: "Keep track of all tradesmen and contact details with SeaTable's construction schedule software."
      - headline: 'All work at a glance'
        text: 'Use the timeline plugin or the Kanban view to visually display the status of individual tasks and schedules. This means you are always up to date and can immediately see which follow-up orders are affected in the event of delays.'
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_04.jpg'
        image_alt: 'App with timeline and Kanban view for construction schedule.'
      - headline: 'Real-time dashboard for cost control'
        text: "Record the planned and actual costs for each construction step in the 'Expenses' table. With the integrated statistics and a dashboard in the Universal App, you can easily create your own cost control using drag-and-drop."
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_05.jpg'
        image_alt: 'Keep an eye on all expenses and the overall budget with the construction schedule template with integrated dashboards.'
      
    - name: "banner-3"
      weight: 12
      title: 'Only good surprises - costs, deadlines and construction progress at a glance'
      buttons:
        - label: Test the construction schedule template now
          link: pages/registration
          id: en-vorlage-bauzeitenplan-registration-3

    - name: "content-6"
      weight: 15
      classes:
        - curved
        - bg-gray-100
      title: 'Your own construction schedule app with SeaTable'
      subtitle: 
      items:
      - text: "With SeaTable's integrated No Code App Builder, you can create your personal construction schedule app in just a few steps. In addition to the individual work steps, contacts and controlling dashboards, you can also add further information, images or additional documents and share them with others. Password protection and user-defined authorizations offer additional security."
      image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_06.jpg'
      image_alt: 'Customized construction schedule app with SeaTable No-Code Builder, data collection of work steps, trades and costs.'

    - name: "faq"
      weight: 20
      title: 'FAQ - Construction schedule template from SeaTable'
      subtitle: 
      items:
      - q: "Is SeaTable's construction schedule template free? "
        a: 'Yes, all you need to use the construction schedule template software for free is a free SeaTable account.'
      - q: "Why do I need a construction schedule at all?"
        a: "A structured plan helps you to maintain an overview and coordinate everyone involved in the project. In the event of delays or problems in a construction phase, you can see the effects at a glance and act accordingly."
      - q: "What advantages does SeaTable offer compared to a construction schedule in Excel?"
        a: 'A construction schedule in Excel can work for smaller projects with very few people involved. For larger, more complex projects, however, you will find that a construction schedule template in Excel reaches its limits: error-prone manual maintenance, difficult to understand data links, limited visual representations. SeaTable, on the other hand, offers simple functions for data linking and automated data processing and displays relationships between data sets visually.'
      - q: 'For whom is SeaTable suitable as software for a construction schedule?'
        a: "SeaTable is suitable both for private builders who need a clear construction schedule for their single-family home and for architects who need to coordinate multiple projects."
---

Commit message:

description templates cat. legal & real est.

src/content/templates/real-estate/construction-schedule/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Construction schedule'
description: 'See your entire construction project at a glance: this digital planner unites deadlines, trades and costs in one place and streamlines team collaboration.'
date: '2025-10-28'
url: '/templates/construction schedule'
category: 'real-estate'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Construction schedule template: Use the app for free'
    description: 'Digital construction schedule template: Keep track of deadlines, trades and costs - with SeaTable.'
template: 'ef8bfa0896864e698655'

type: pages
sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'Professional construction schedule template'
      text: "Keep track of your construction project at all times - without confusing spreadsheets. With SeaTable's free construction schedule template, you can manage your construction project easily and transparently."
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: ef8bfa0896864e698655
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free and use the template
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
    
    - name: "content-27"
      weight: 2
      title: 'What your construction schedule template can do for you'
      subtitle: Overview, flexibility, transparency
      text: 
      items:
        - icon: 'pencil'
          headline: 'Flexibility'
          text: 'Simply adapt the template to your construction project - without programming knowledge.'
        - icon: 'lock-open'
          headline: 'Transparency'
          text: 'Control all trades and work steps in a central overview.'
        - icon: 'list'
          headline: 'Overview'
          text: 'Always stay up to date with visual schedules.'
        - icon: 'chart-line'
          headline: 'Control'
          text: 'Keep an eye on schedules and costs with dashboards and recognize risks immediately.'
        - icon: 'comment'
          headline: 'Communication'
          text: 'Use integrated notifications and comments for greater transparency.'
        - icon: 'people-group'
          headline: 'Collaboration'
          text: 'Share your plan with the craftsmen and maintain data in real time.' 

    - name: "content-12"
      weight: 5
      classes:
        - curved
        - [bg-gray-200, bg-seatable-blue]
      title: 'Construction schedule template from SeaTable'
      subtitle: 'Efficient construction schedule software'
      description: "A locally saved schedule like in Excel may be quick to create - but it is non-transparent and inefficient. With SeaTable's construction schedule software, you benefit from many advantages that enable smooth construction."
      items:
      - text: 'Up-to-date at all times: changes can be entered at any time and are immediately visible to everyone.'
      - text: 'Access from anywhere: With SeaTable as a cloud solution, you always have access to your planning.'
      - text: 'Share with trades: Give everyone involved access to relevant information.'
      - text: 'Visual presentation: Display your data clearly with plugins, views and dashboards'
      - text: 'Security: SeaTable is GDPR-compliant and is hosted exclusively on servers in Germany.'
      image_position: [left]
      image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_01.jpg'
      image_alt: 'Construction schedule template in table view'

    - name: "content-13"
      weight: 18
      class:
       - curved
       - bg-gray-100
      title: 'Construction schedule template for overview and safety'
      subtitle: 'Full control'
      description: 'SeaTable is a modern no-code database with Universal App Builder and offers all the functions you need for a digital construction schedule. So you can manage risks effectively.'
      box-position: [right!]
      items:
      - headline: Risk management
        text: Avoid unnecessary delays or exploding costs. If you use the SeaTable template for your house construction schedule, you can avoid unpleasant surprises and actively manage risks.
      - headline: Transparency
        text: This template makes it easier to communicate with third parties. Because having all information structured and up-to-date avoids misunderstandings and saves time. This is particularly advantageous when communicating with tradespeople. 

    - name: "content-25"
      weight: 10
      title: "The advantages of SeaTable's construction schedule template"
      subtitle: 'Everything at a glance - always up-to-date'
      items:
      - headline: 'Simple planning thanks to visual representation'
        text: 'Keeping an overview in a purely tabular construction schedule like in Excel is tedious. In SeaTable, you can visualize your project with our timeline plugin at no extra cost or effort. This allows you to perfectly coordinate all deadlines.'
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_02.jpg'
        image_alt: 'Free construction schedule template online with SeaTable, spreadsheet, customizable, share with planners and tradesmen, high data protection, and mobile access'
      - headline: 'An overview of all trades'
        text: 'Link all work directly to the contracted company in the "Contact" table. This allows you to see immediately whether an order has already been placed and what other work this company is to carry out. Contact details are immediately available in case of questions.'
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_03.jpg'
        image_alt: "Keep track of all tradesmen and contact details with SeaTable's construction schedule software."
      - headline: 'All work at a glance'
        text: 'Use the timeline plugin or the Kanban view to visually display the status of individual tasks and schedules. This means you are always up to date and can immediately see which follow-up orders are affected in the event of delays.'
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_04.jpg'
        image_alt: 'App with timeline and Kanban view for construction schedule.'
      - headline: 'Real-time dashboard for cost control'
        text: "Record the planned and actual costs for each construction step in the 'Expenses' table. With the integrated statistics and a dashboard in the Universal App, you can easily create your own cost control using drag-and-drop."
        image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_05.jpg'
        image_alt: 'Keep an eye on all expenses and the overall budget with the construction schedule template with integrated dashboards.'
      
    - name: "banner-3"
      weight: 12
      title: 'Only good surprises - costs, deadlines and construction progress at a glance'
      buttons:
        - label: Test the construction schedule template now
          link: pages/registration
          id: en-vorlage-bauzeitenplan-registration-3

    - name: "content-6"
      weight: 15
      classes:
        - curved
        - bg-gray-100
      title: 'Your own construction schedule app with SeaTable'
      subtitle: 
      items:
      - text: "With SeaTable's integrated No Code App Builder, you can create your personal construction schedule app in just a few steps. In addition to the individual work steps, contacts and controlling dashboards, you can also add further information, images or additional documents and share them with others. Password protection and user-defined authorizations offer additional security."
      image: '/images/template_page_bauzeitenplan_06.jpg'
      image_alt: 'Customized construction schedule app with SeaTable No-Code Builder, data collection of work steps, trades and costs.'

    - name: "faq"
      weight: 20
      title: 'FAQ - Construction schedule template from SeaTable'
      subtitle: 
      items:
      - q: "Is SeaTable's construction schedule template free? "
        a: 'Yes, all you need to use the construction schedule template software for free is a free SeaTable account.'
      - q: "Why do I need a construction schedule at all?"
        a: "A structured plan helps you to maintain an overview and coordinate everyone involved in the project. In the event of delays or problems in a construction phase, you can see the effects at a glance and act accordingly."
      - q: "What advantages does SeaTable offer compared to a construction schedule in Excel?"
        a: 'A construction schedule in Excel can work for smaller projects with very few people involved. For larger, more complex projects, however, you will find that a construction schedule template in Excel reaches its limits: error-prone manual maintenance, difficult to understand data links, limited visual representations. SeaTable, on the other hand, offers simple functions for data linking and automated data processing and displays relationships between data sets visually.'
      - q: 'For whom is SeaTable suitable as software for a construction schedule?'
        a: "SeaTable is suitable both for private builders who need a clear construction schedule for their single-family home and for architects who need to coordinate multiple projects."
---
