src/content/templates/product-design/digital-product-management/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Digital product management'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/digital-product-management'
aliases:
    - '/digitales-produktmanagement'
category: 'product-design'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: '563da026db8e4782ac62'
---

Digital product management is more in demand today than ever before: Modern products and increasing digitization demand fast and transparent methods of developing products and bringing them successfully to market. Product management consists of many different task areas and is therefore very diverse. Often, different tools are resorted to in order to be able to map all processes. This can lead to more confusion than clarity and is therefore counterproductive. A solution is needed here that makes things easier.

SeaTable starts here and is able to bring together the most diverse processes and enable meaningful, efficient and transparent collaboration. As a highly flexible software, it brings things like product catalogs, sales figures and store management, project and task management together in a meaningful way, creating order and efficiency.In our blog post you will learnhow our template works and how your product management can achieve maximum efficiency with it.

In our template, we have mapped a digital product management with different workspaces. On the one hand, product catalogs disclose information for external purposes, on the other hand, important internal information is stored here, which is needed for product development and implementation and can thus be accessed by every employee. Since SeaTable also functions as a database, all stored product images form a complete image database in original quality with the gallery plugin.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you have any questions? Take a look at our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).

Commit message:

template pages title tag meta url

src/content/templates/product-design/digital-product-management/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Digital product management'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/digital-product-management'
aliases:
    - '/digitales-produktmanagement'
category: 'product-design'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Digital Product Management Template & Online Solution'
    description: 'Manage catalogs, sales, tasks and teams in one product management template – flexible, digital and ready for your workflow.'
template: '563da026db8e4782ac62'
---

Digital product management is more in demand today than ever before: Modern products and increasing digitization demand fast and transparent methods of developing products and bringing them successfully to market. Product management consists of many different task areas and is therefore very diverse. Often, different tools are resorted to in order to be able to map all processes. This can lead to more confusion than clarity and is therefore counterproductive. A solution is needed here that makes things easier.

SeaTable starts here and is able to bring together the most diverse processes and enable meaningful, efficient and transparent collaboration. As a highly flexible software, it brings things like product catalogs, sales figures and store management, project and task management together in a meaningful way, creating order and efficiency.In our blog post you will learnhow our template works and how your product management can achieve maximum efficiency with it.

In our template, we have mapped a digital product management with different workspaces. On the one hand, product catalogs disclose information for external purposes, on the other hand, important internal information is stored here, which is needed for product development and implementation and can thus be accessed by every employee. Since SeaTable also functions as a database, all stored product images form a complete image database in original quality with the gallery plugin.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you have any questions? Take a look at our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).
