src/content/help/base-editor/schaltflaechen/eine-e-mail-per-schaltflaeche-verschicken/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Send an email by button'
date: 2023-01-23
lastmod: '2024-02-20'
categories:
    - 'andere-spalten'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/send-email-via-button-seatable'
aliases:
    - '/help/eine-e-mail-per-schaltflaeche-verschicken'
seo:
    title: 'Send emails via button in SeaTable'
    description: 'Easily send formatted emails – with attachments and dynamic content – via button columns in your SeaTable base.'

---

With the help of a **button** in your rows you can send e-mails to one or more recipients. All you need to do is add an **email account** in SeaTable in advance.

## Sending an e-mail with a button

First, when you create the [button]({{< relref "help/base-editor/spaltentypen/die-schaltflaeche" >}}), select the **Send Email** action.

![Selection of the action "Send e-mail](images/send-email-action.png)

Under **Account Name**, select an account from which you want to send the email. If you **do not see an account** in this field, you must first [add]({{< relref "help/base-editor/weitere-optionen/einrichtung-eines-e-mail-kontos-in-einer-base" >}}) an [email account to SeaTable]({{< relref "help/base-editor/weitere-optionen/einrichtung-eines-e-mail-kontos-in-einer-base" >}}).

![If you do not see an email account, you must first add an email account to SeaTable](images/add-email-account.png)

{{< warning  headline="Note" >}}

Detailed instructions on how to set up your **email account for** sending emails can be found [here]({{< relref "help/base-editor/weitere-optionen/einrichtung-eines-e-mail-kontos-in-einer-base" >}}). The **account** you add will be available for selection when you create the button afterwards.

{{< /warning >}}

Now define the **subject** and **content of** the e-mail.

![Set the subject and content of the email](images/subject-and-message.png)

If you have activated the **Formatted text** slider, double-clicking on the text field opens the familiar **editor** in which you can create longer texts with formatting, lists and images. A special feature here is that you can also **insert columns**.

![Insert columns in e-mail texts](images/Spalten-in-E-Mail-Texte-einfuegen.png)

Select the **recipient** (s) of the email. Optionally, you can also select recipients who should receive a **copy of** the email or to whom you want to **reply** with the email. You can enter multiple recipients separated by commas. Use the name of a column in curly brackets to quote the contents of the column.

![Specify the recipient(s) of the email. Optionally, you can also select recipients who should receive a copy of the email or to whom you want to reply with the email.](images/send-to-copy-to-reply-to.png)

Optionally, you can add an **attachment to** the email. Note, however, that you _cannot_ simply upload files, but must first save them in a [file column of]({{< relref "help/base-editor/spaltentypen/die-datei-spalte" >}}) the table. In the **Attachments** field, you can then select one or more **file columns** from which you want to attach the files to the email.

![Files that you have added to a file column of your spreadsheet can be used as attachments to the e-mail](images/file-001.png)

## Conditional execution of multiple button actions

The [button]({{< relref "help/base-editor/spaltentypen/die-schaltflaeche" >}}) is a special type of column that allows you to perform **several actions simultaneously** by pressing a button. You can specify the **timing of** actions by conditionally executing a subsequent action. Thus it is possible to **switch actions one after the other**.

For example, you may want to [save a PDF document in a file column]({{< relref "help/base-editor/schaltflaechen/ein-pdf-dokument-per-schaltflaeche-in-einer-spalte-speichern" >}}) with one click and attach the file to an email afterwards. This may cause the problem that the email is sent before the PDF for the attachment has been created.

To prevent this, you can link the execution of button actions to **filter conditions**. In the mentioned use case, for example, you can add as a filter condition that the email will **only** be sent if the **file column** in the same row **is not empty**. This way you establish a clear sequence: When the button is pressed, SeaTable must first create a **PDF**, because the email can **only** be sent **with an attachment**.

![](images/send-email-via-button-with-conditions-1.gif)

Commit message:

help/send-email-via-button-seatable, image-alt, all languages

src/content/help/base-editor/schaltflaechen/eine-e-mail-per-schaltflaeche-verschicken/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Send an email by button'
date: 2023-01-23
lastmod: '2024-02-20'
categories:
    - 'andere-spalten'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/send-email-via-button-seatable'
aliases:
    - '/help/eine-e-mail-per-schaltflaeche-verschicken'
seo:
    title: 'Send emails via button in SeaTable'
    description: 'Easily send formatted emails – with attachments and dynamic content – via button columns in your SeaTable base.'

---

With the help of a **button** in your rows you can send e-mails to one or more recipients. All you need to do is add an **email account** in SeaTable in advance.

## Sending an e-mail with a button

First, when you create the [button]({{< relref "help/base-editor/spaltentypen/die-schaltflaeche" >}}), select the **Send Email** action.

![Dialog for selecting the “Send email” button action](images/send-email-action.png)

Under **Account Name**, select an account from which you want to send the email. If you **do not see an account** in this field, you must first [add]({{< relref "help/base-editor/weitere-optionen/einrichtung-eines-e-mail-kontos-in-einer-base" >}}) an [email account to SeaTable]({{< relref "help/base-editor/weitere-optionen/einrichtung-eines-e-mail-kontos-in-einer-base" >}}).

![Hint dialog indicating an email account must be added first](images/add-email-account.png)

{{< warning  headline="Note" >}}

Detailed instructions on how to set up your **email account for** sending emails can be found [here]({{< relref "help/base-editor/weitere-optionen/einrichtung-eines-e-mail-kontos-in-einer-base" >}}). The **account** you add will be available for selection when you create the button afterwards.

{{< /warning >}}

Now define the **subject** and **content of** the e-mail.

![Configuration screen for email subject and message body](images/subject-and-message.png)

If you have activated the **Formatted text** slider, double-clicking on the text field opens the familiar **editor** in which you can create longer texts with formatting, lists and images. A special feature here is that you can also **insert columns**.

![Rich text editor with inserted column placeholders](images/Spalten-in-E-Mail-Texte-einfuegen.png)

Select the **recipient** (s) of the email. Optionally, you can also select recipients who should receive a **copy of** the email or to whom you want to **reply** with the email. You can enter multiple recipients separated by commas. Use the name of a column in curly brackets to quote the contents of the column.

![Dialog for entering recipients, CC and reply-to addresses](images/send-to-copy-to-reply-to.png)

Optionally, you can add an **attachment to** the email. Note, however, that you _cannot_ simply upload files, but must first save them in a [file column of]({{< relref "help/base-editor/spaltentypen/die-datei-spalte" >}}) the table. In the **Attachments** field, you can then select one or more **file columns** from which you want to attach the files to the email.

![Selection of file columns as sources for email attachments](images/file-001.png)

## Conditional execution of multiple button actions

The [button]({{< relref "help/base-editor/spaltentypen/die-schaltflaeche" >}}) is a special type of column that allows you to perform **several actions simultaneously** by pressing a button. You can specify the **timing of** actions by conditionally executing a subsequent action. Thus it is possible to **switch actions one after the other**.

For example, you may want to [save a PDF document in a file column]({{< relref "help/base-editor/schaltflaechen/ein-pdf-dokument-per-schaltflaeche-in-einer-spalte-speichern" >}}) with one click and attach the file to an email afterwards. This may cause the problem that the email is sent before the PDF for the attachment has been created.

To prevent this, you can link the execution of button actions to **filter conditions**. In the mentioned use case, for example, you can add as a filter condition that the email will **only** be sent if the **file column** in the same row **is not empty**. This way you establish a clear sequence: When the button is pressed, SeaTable must first create a **PDF**, because the email can **only** be sent **with an attachment**.

![Button sends email only if file column is not empty](images/send-email-via-button-with-conditions-1.gif)
