---
title: 'Personal settings'
date: 2022-08-25
lastmod: '2023-03-09'
categories:
    - 'persoenliche-einstellungen'
author: 'cdb'
url: '/help/persoenliche-einstellungen'
---

In SeaTable you manage your user account via the **personal settings**. There you can configure the protection of your account with **password** and if necessary **2-factor authentication**, your **avatar image**, the **interface language** and the **email notifications of** SeaTable and thus adapt them to your needs.

This article provides you with an overview of what personal settings are available and how you can change them.

## Profile

The profile includes your avatar, name and contact email address.

Your **avatar** is a small image that appears in many places in SeaTable, alone or together with your name, to indicate you as a user (for example, in shares or in people columns). Read here how to [customize]({{< relref "help/startseite/persoenliche-einstellungen/avatarbild-anpassen" >}}) your avatar [image]({{< relref "help/startseite/persoenliche-einstellungen/avatarbild-anpassen" >}}).

The **name** is your username in SeaTable. You can choose it freely, as long as your team administrator has allowed it. We recommend a clear name so that other team members can identify you without much effort.

The **contact email address** is displayed in the personal settings for information only. You cannot change it.

## Password

You can change your **password** by clicking **Update**. You can learn how to do it in the article [Change your own password]({{< relref "help/startseite/persoenliche-einstellungen/eigenes-passwort-aendern" >}}).

## Language

You can use SeaTable in **five languages**: English, French, German, Russian and Chinese (as of 09 March 2023). You can read how to change the language in the [Customize interface language]({{< relref "help/startseite/persoenliche-einstellungen/anpassen-der-oberflaechensprache" >}}) article.

## Email notifications from SeaTable

If you collaborate with several people, you will receive numerous **notifications in** SeaTable, which you can also have sent to you by **e-mail**. Define here about which changes and how often you want to be notified by email.

If you don't want to be notified of changes at all, you can [unsubscribe from SeaTable's notification emails]({{< relref "help/startseite/persoenliche-einstellungen/e-mails-von-seatable-abbestellen" >}}).

## 2-factor authentication

**2-factor authentication** (2FA) protects your user account and thus your data - beyond your personal password - against unauthorized access. With 2FA activated, you must enter a **six-digit code** in addition to your **password** when logging in. This code is generated by a **2FA app** on your smartphone or tablet. You can learn exactly how this works in the article [Activating 2-factor authentication]({{< relref "help/startseite/persoenliche-einstellungen/2-faktor-authentifizierung-aktivieren" >}}).

As a **team administrator**, you can also [enable two-factor authentication for one team member]({{< relref "help/teamverwaltung/team/zwei-faktor-authentifizierung-fuer-ein-teammitglied-aktivieren" >}})) or [force two-factor authentication for the entire team]({{< relref "help/teamverwaltung/team/zwei-faktor-authentifizierung-fuer-das-gesamte-team-erzwingen" >}})) to increase overall security.
