src/content/help/erste-schritte/online-kurs-1/schritt-3-import-von-daten/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Step 3: Importing data'
date: 2024-08-30
lastmod: '2024-09-01'
categories:
    - 'online-kurs'
author: 'cdb'
url: '/help/step-3-importing-data'
aliases:
    - '/help/schritt-3-import-von-daten'
seo:
    title: 'Step 3: Importing Data Into SeaTable'
    description: 'How to import data via CSV into your expense tracker using SeaTable. Includes file types, import control and export tips.'
---

You have probably already entered a few expenses in your new expense management system. However, we need a little more data for the following steps. We will therefore remove your existing entries and import new data records into the table.

## Delete the old data records

Switch to your table `Expenses` and delete all previously entered rows. Your table should now be empty.

## Import of new data records

SeaTable offers a wide range of import options. You can import entire bases as .dtable, .csv or .xlsx files. But even if you already have a base, you can write new or updated data directly into a table. This is exactly what we want to do now using a CSV file. Alternatively, we could also have used an Excel file here.

- Download the following [expenses.csv](/expenses.csv) file
- Now import the CSV file into the table `Expenses`
- Check that the table now has exactly 50 entries

![](images/level1-import-csv.png)

## Import and export

Of course, you can export data, tables and bases in SeaTable just as you can import them. Just play around with the various options to get a feel for these functions. However, exports are not important for the rest of this course.

That's all for this part. Let's move on to the next step.

## Help article with further information

- [Delete from rows]({{< relref "help/base-editor/zeilen/das-loeschen-von-zeilen" >}})
- [Data import and export in SeaTable]({{< relref "help/startseite/import-von-daten/datenimport-und-export" >}})
- [Which import formats does SeaTable support?]({{< relref "help/startseite/import-von-daten/welche-import-formate-unterstuetzt-seatable" >}})

Commit message:

help/step-3-importing-data, image-alt, all languages

src/content/help/erste-schritte/online-kurs-1/schritt-3-import-von-daten/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Step 3: Importing data'
date: 2024-08-30
lastmod: '2024-09-01'
categories:
    - 'online-kurs'
author: 'cdb'
url: '/help/step-3-importing-data'
aliases:
    - '/help/schritt-3-import-von-daten'
seo:
    title: 'Step 3: Importing Data Into SeaTable'
    description: 'How to import data via CSV into your expense tracker using SeaTable. Includes file types, import control and export tips.'
---

You have probably already entered a few expenses in your new expense management system. However, we need a little more data for the following steps. We will therefore remove your existing entries and import new data records into the table.

## Delete the old data records

Switch to your table `Expenses` and delete all previously entered rows. Your table should now be empty.

## Import of new data records

SeaTable offers a wide range of import options. You can import entire bases as .dtable, .csv or .xlsx files. But even if you already have a base, you can write new or updated data directly into a table. This is exactly what we want to do now using a CSV file. Alternatively, we could also have used an Excel file here.

- Download the following [expenses.csv](/expenses.csv) file
- Now import the CSV file into the table `Expenses`
- Check that the table now has exactly 50 entries

![Dialog for CSV import into the “Expenses” table with data preview](images/level1-import-csv.png)

## Import and export

Of course, you can export data, tables and bases in SeaTable just as you can import them. Just play around with the various options to get a feel for these functions. However, exports are not important for the rest of this course.

That's all for this part. Let's move on to the next step.

## Help article with further information

- [Delete from rows]({{< relref "help/base-editor/zeilen/das-loeschen-von-zeilen" >}})
- [Data import and export in SeaTable]({{< relref "help/startseite/import-von-daten/datenimport-und-export" >}})
- [Which import formats does SeaTable support?]({{< relref "help/startseite/import-von-daten/welche-import-formate-unterstuetzt-seatable" >}})
