src/content/pages/legal/overview.en.md, before:

---
title: Legal
type: pages
url: /legal

sections:
    - name: hero-7
      weight: 1
      title: Legal Information and Documents
      text: 'Overview of data protection, terms of use, and security measures.'
      classes:
          - bg-gray-200

    - name: legal-overview
      weight: 2
      items:
          - icon: fingerprint
            headline: Privacy Policy
            text: The privacy policy explains which personal data is collected, processed, and protected by us.
            link: pages/legal/data-privacy
          - icon: pgpkey
            headline: Terms and Conditions
            text: The terms and conditions set the rules for using our services, including rights and obligations of all parties involved.
            link: pages/legal/terms-of-service
          - icon: file-shield
            headline: Data Processing Agreement
            text: The data processing agreement regulates the contractual processing of personal data on behalf and compliance with data protection requirements.
            link: pages/legal/avv
          - icon: globe
            headline: Subcontractors
            text: The description of subcontractors lists third parties that process personal data on behalf and clarifies their reliability as well as contractual security guarantees.
            link: pages/legal/subcontractors
          - icon: list-check
            headline: Technical and Organizational Measures
            text: The technical and organizational measures describe comprehensive protection measures against unauthorized access, loss, or manipulation of personal data.
            link: pages/legal/toms
          - icon: bell
            headline: End User License Agreement for SeaTable Server Enterprise Edition
            text: The provisions of this End User License Agreement ("EULA") govern the legal relationship between SeaTable GmbH and the customer.
            link: pages/legal/eula
          - icon: substack
            headline: EVB-IT
            text: The EVB-IT regulates electronic data processing in the public sector and sets minimum requirements for IT security and data protection in data processing agreements.

    - name: form-contact
      weight: 3
      title: Still have questions?
---

Commit message:

add need help to legal overview page

src/content/pages/legal/overview.en.md, after:

---
title: Legal
type: pages
url: /legal

sections:
    - name: hero-7
      weight: 1
      title: Legal Information and Documents
      text: 'Overview of data protection, terms of use, and security measures.'
      classes:
          - bg-gray-200

    - name: legal-overview
      weight: 2
      items:
          - icon: fingerprint
            headline: Privacy Policy
            text: The privacy policy explains which personal data is collected, processed, and protected by us.
            link: pages/legal/data-privacy
          - icon: pgpkey
            headline: Terms and Conditions
            text: The terms and conditions set the rules for using our services, including rights and obligations of all parties involved.
            link: pages/legal/terms-of-service
          - icon: file-shield
            headline: Data Processing Agreement
            text: The data processing agreement regulates the contractual processing of personal data on behalf and compliance with data protection requirements.
            link: pages/legal/avv
          - icon: globe
            headline: Subcontractors
            text: The description of subcontractors lists third parties that process personal data on behalf and clarifies their reliability as well as contractual security guarantees.
            link: pages/legal/subcontractors
          - icon: list-check
            headline: Technical and Organizational Measures
            text: The technical and organizational measures describe comprehensive protection measures against unauthorized access, loss, or manipulation of personal data.
            link: pages/legal/toms
          - icon: bell
            headline: End User License Agreement for SeaTable Server Enterprise Edition
            text: The provisions of this End User License Agreement ("EULA") govern the legal relationship between SeaTable GmbH and the customer.
            link: pages/legal/eula
          - icon: substack
            headline: EVB-IT
            text: The EVB-IT regulates electronic data processing in the public sector and sets minimum requirements for IT security and data protection in data processing agreements.

    - name: 'content-22'
      weight: 3
      title: Do you need help?
      subtitle: Contact support
      text: We are here for you. Get in touch with SeaTable support.
      classes:
          - bg-white
          - curved
      buttons:
          - label: 'Contact us'
            link: 'pages/contact'
            style: 'secondary'
---
