src/content/help/startseite/freigaben/einzelne-tabellenblaetter-einer-base-freigeben/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Share single tables of a base'
date: 2022-11-16
lastmod: '2023-02-22'
categories:
    - 'freigaben'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/einzelne-tabellenblaetter-einer-base-freigeben'
---

You do not want to **share** a whole base, but **individual tables**? You can do this via a **custom share** to specific [users]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/eine-base-an-eine-gruppe-freigeben" >}}).

## Share individual tables via the start page

![Release of individual spreadsheets from the start page](images/share-single-tablesheets-from-the-start-page.png)

1. Switch to the SeaTable **home** page.
2. Move the mouse over the **base** from which you want to share individual tables.
3. Click on the **three dots** that appeared on the right.
4. Select the menu item **Release**.
5. A **window** will then open in which you can create various shares.

## Release within Base

![Release within Base](images/share-a-base.png)

If you are currently **in a Base**, you can also create a share without having to switch to the Home screen. To do this, click the **Share icon** {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-share" >}} at the top right of the **Base options**. The window that opens to create a share is the same as on the Home page.

## Create custom share

For a detailed explanation of the necessary steps, see the article [Creating a Custom Share]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen" >}}).

Commit message:

Bugfixes release/share & common datasets

src/content/help/startseite/freigaben/einzelne-tabellenblaetter-einer-base-freigeben/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Share single tables of a base'
date: 2022-11-16
lastmod: '2023-02-22'
categories:
    - 'freigaben'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/einzelne-tabellenblaetter-einer-base-freigeben'
---

You do not want to **share** a whole base, but **individual tables**? You can do this via a **custom sharing permission** to specific [users]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/eine-base-an-eine-gruppe-freigeben" >}}).

## Share individual tables via the start page

![Share of individual spreadsheets from the start page](images/share-single-tablesheets-from-the-start-page.png)

1. Switch to the SeaTable **home** page.
2. Move the mouse over the **base** from which you want to share individual tables.
3. Click on the **three dots** that appeared on the right.
4. Select the menu item **Share**.
5. A **window** will then open in which you can create various shares.

## Share from inside a base

![Share from inside a base](images/share-a-base.png)

If you are currently **in a base**, you can also create a share without having to switch to the Home screen. To do this, click the **Share icon** {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-share" >}} at the top right of the **Base options**. The window that opens to create a share is the same as on the Home page.

## Create custom sharing permission

For a detailed explanation of the necessary steps, see the article [Create a Custom Sharing Permission]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen" >}}).
