src/content/pages/arbeitszeiterfassung/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Work Time Tracking with SeaTable – Efficient, Digital & Compliant Tracking of Work Hours'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Time Tracking with SeaTable | Efficient, Digital & Compliant'
    description: 'Track work hours with SeaTable: digital, free, GDPR-compliant. Efficient and legal management of hours, vacations, and sick leave.'
date: '2025-08-21'
url: '/work-time-tracking/'
aliases:
  - '/time-tracking'
  - '/arbeitszeiterfassung'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'Digital time recording with SeaTable: time recording for your company'
      text: 'Forget time clocks, time sheets and Excel tables for recording working hours. There is no need for expensive time recording systems. Reduce the time and effort spent on vacation requests and sick notes - free of charge in the free version, efficient, intuitive, clear and flexibly adaptable to your individual needs.'
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: 7b72578c0e714750954a
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes: 
        - curved
        - bg-seatable-blue
      title: "The ideal tool for precise working time recording"
      subtitle: Simple, precise, GDPR-compliant
      description: Recording working hours is more than just a bureaucratic obligation - it ensures that both you as an employer and your employees comply with their rights and obligations. It creates transparency about hours worked, helps to avoid overtime and ensures statutory rest periods.
 
      items:
        - text: protects your employees from overload
        - text: ensures that breaks and rest periods are observed
        - text: optimizes internal processes
        - text: enables efficient planning of personnel
        - text: lets you react to bottlenecks in good time
        - text: 100% GDPR compliant
        - text: flexibly customizable data structure
      image: /images/Landing-Page_Arbeitszeiterfassung_Screenshot_ 2_transparent.png

    - name: content-11
      weight: 5
      title: Working time recording with SeaTable - many advantages
      subtitle: Flexible, efficient, safe
      items:
      - text: With a time recording app, you save time and reduce administrative work. SeaTable offers numerous advantages for time recording in small and large companies! Use the free SeaTable database software instead of expensive working time calculators. The free subscription gives you the basic functions of a spreadsheet and more... Link records, capture information with over 20 column types, and add checkboxes, buttons, checkboxes, images and files. Try it out now!
      image: /images/Landing-Page_Arbeitszeiterfassung_Screenshot_1_transparent.png

    - name: content-11
      weight: 6
      title: User-friendly data acquisition
      subtitle: Intuitive, simple, location-independent
      items:
      - text: In SeaTable, you can make time tracking online, intuitive and user-friendly, because your employees record working times via intuitive web forms with clear instructions. SeaTable creates a new entry for each form, which only managers can see and edit. The software automatically calculates hours worked as well as overtime or undertime and highlights the daily balance in color.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_benutzerfreundliche_datenerfassung_neu.png
      image_position: left

    - name: content-11
      weight: 7
      title: Data visualization
      subtitle: Monitoring, reporting, optimization
      items:
      - text: SeaTable's timesheet looks similar to other calculators at first glance, but offers advanced visualizations such as filters, sorting, grouping and graphical plugins such as calendars, [Kanban boards]({{< relref "templates/projects/kanban-board" >}}) or statistics to organize your data clearly. With SeaTable, you can create individual apps, e.g. a management app in which you can keep an eye on overtime, vacations and sick notes on the dashboard and approve or reject requests.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_datenvisualisierung_neu.png
      image_position: right

    - name: content-11
      weight: 8
      title: Central storage location
      subtitle: Standardized, secure, immediately available
      items:
      - text: When employees record working times in different tables, merging them often becomes tedious, error-prone and time-consuming. With SeaTable, all data flows centrally into a secure, [online database]({{< relref "posts/online-datenbank-kostenlos" >}}). Views, approvals and authorizations allow you to control who sees and edits which data - efficiently, orderly and accessible at all times.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_zentraler_speicherort_neu.png
      image_position: left

    - name: content-11
      weight: 9
      title: Collaborative working
      subtitle: Team-oriented, efficient, flexible
      items:
      - text: Especially for hourly employees, working time data must be transferred to the accounting department - often laboriously via email or file sharing. With our [AI no-code-platform]({{< relref "/" >}}), you can save this effort by [creating an app]({{< relref "posts/20250318-app-erstellen" >}}) or sharing the data via a link, either as read access to the entire base or only to a specific view. However, sharing individual views is reserved for SeaTable's paid subscriptions.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_kollaboration_neu.png
      image_position: right

    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 11
      title: Effortlessly comply with legal requirements - with SeaTable
      subtitle: Compliance, transparency, data protection
      text: "In May 2019, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled that companies in the EU must systematically record their employees' working hours. As an employer, you are therefore strongly recommended to use a digital time recording system that not only records your employees' working hours, but also issues early warnings in the event of imminent overruns."
      items:
      - icon: circle-check
        headline: Comply with prescribed working hours
        text: "With SeaTable's working time calculator, you will automatically receive a notification in the event of overruns. Monitor break times and the minimum rest period of 11 hours to ensure that all regulations are adhered to"

      - icon: lock
        headline: Data protection according to the strictest specifications
        text: "SeaTable is GDPR-compliant and protects your data with servers in Germany, optionally also on-premises. Rest assured that your sensitive employee information is secure and all data protection guidelines are adhered to."

      - icon: puzzle-piece
        headline: More than just recording working hours
        text: "SeaTable allows you to optimize your mobile time recording and employee data management. Working hours, vacation requests or sick notes - all stored centrally. Maintain an overview and process administrative tasks more efficiently." 

            
    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 12
      title: Flexible and scalable - the No. 1 for your HR team
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id: 
    
    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 13
      title: Tailor-made template for a customizable working time recording system
      subtitle: Flexible, individual, strong
      description: 'With the free template for time recording and other templates from the HR area of Seatable, you can create your own individual HR system based on a modular principle. All basic functions are included in the free Free subscription; the Enterprise subscription is required for full functions and automation. You can also use additional SeaTable features to customize your digital timesheet. Import our templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.'
      
      items:
          - text: Working time recording
            image: /images/bewerbermanagement-template-arbeitszeiterfassung.svg
            image_alt: ""
          - text: Personnel recruitment
            image: /images/bewerbermanagement-template-personalrekrutierung.svg
            image_alt: ""
          - text: Employee onboarding
            image: /images/bewerbermanagement-template-onboarding.svg
            image_alt: ""
      buttons:
        - label: Discover all templates
          link: "templates"
    
    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 10
      title: Time savings through automation
      subtitle: Automated, process-optimized
      description: With an Enterprise subscription, SeaTable can perform actions automatically, e.g. send notifications, edit entries or create links, thus reducing the workload for recurring work steps. Automations inform you, for example, if working times exceed the legal upper limits or breaks are not observed - fully automatically as soon as values are outside the defined rules. You can seamlessly optimize and automate your workflows with integrations such as Zapier, Make or n8n.
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'

    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 16
      title: SeaTable offers extensive functions in all price models
      subtitle: Cloud or self-hosted?
      description: 
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Perfect for companies that want to get started quickly and without an extensive IT infrastructure - flexible and scalable.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: For companies that want to retain full control over their data, SeaTable Server offers an on-premises option.
            image: /images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: For companies that need the simplicity of the cloud and the flexibility of a self-hosted system.  
            image: /images/asana-dedicated.jpg

    - name: "content-21"
      weight: 15
      title: Simple time recording free of charge with SeaTable
      text: How can you record your employees' working hours quickly, easily and in compliance with the law? With a SeaTable template specially tailored to this use case!
      items:
          - headline: 'All working hours at a glance'
            text: 'As with any SeaTable template, it is a database with different tables that you can customize to your needs. The first table offers an admin view that includes all working hours, vacation requests and sick notes. This allows you as a manager to keep track of attendances and absences in the team.'
          - headline: 'Individual views for more data protection'
            text: 'Using personalized views filtered by user ID, you can control exactly who can see which data and thus create each employee s own hours account with the data relevant to them. SeaTable automatically calculates hours worked as well as overtime and undertime compared to regular working hours.'
          - headline: 'Minimum administration, maximum user-friendliness'
            text: 'In the employee app created with SeaTable, your employees record working hours, vacation requests and sick notes directly via web forms. Clear instructions in the input fields ensure simple operation - minimum effort, maximum user-friendliness.'
          - headline: 'Detailed statistics at a glance'
            text: 'After submitting, SeaTable automatically inserts the data into the tables, which you as a manager can approve or reject. Your dashboard shows statistics on overtime, vacation and sick leave, supplemented by a calendar overview.'
               
    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 17
      title: The ideal solution for digitalized working time recording 
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id: 
   
    - name: faq
      weight: 20
      title: FAQ – Answers to the most important questions about recording working time with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'How does SeaTable map working time recording in the company?'
            a: 'With SeaTable, you can record and document your employees  working hours in accordance with current legislation and with minimal administrative effort. All processes relating to working time recording, vacation requests and sick notes are managed centrally in an online database - no more need for scattered timesheets! All you need to use it is an Internet browser and an e-mail address.'
          - q: 'Does SeaTable offer more than just working time recording?'
            a: 'Yes, digital time tracking is just one of the many use cases. SeaTable offers solutions for recruiting, onboarding and many other [HR processes]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/hr" >}}) - all in one flexible platform. Discover our templates and get started right away with a free account.'
          - q: 'Is the time tracking template free of charge?'
            a: 'Yes, our time tracking template is free to use with SeaTable Free. This subscription is automatically assigned to you when you register in SeaTable. With an Enterprise subscription, you also have access to convenient **AI-supported automations** that save you a lot of manual clicks.'
          - q: 'Is the employer obliged to record time?'
            a: 'Yes, the European Court of Justice ruled in May 2019 that companies in the EU must record all of their employees working hours. The Federal Labor Court confirmed this in its ruling of 13 September 2022.'
          - q: 'How must working hours be recorded?'
            a: 'A draft law from the Federal Ministry of Labor states "The start, end and duration of daily working hours must be recorded electronically and, as a rule, on the same day."'
          - q: 'Can SeaTable be used to record working hours in a legally compliant manner?'
            a: 'Yes, with SeaTable your employees can record their working hours electronically and on a daily basis in an online database. All they need is an e-mail address and an Internet connection. With our template for recording working hours, you can create a separate working time account for each employee, in which overtime, working hours, vacations and sick days are clearly visible. This allows you to meet all current requirements and, if necessary, you can flexibly adapt your solution to new requirements or changes in the legal situation.'
          - q: 'Can you work with external providers and agencies in SeaTable?'
            a: 'Definitely! Many teams work with external service providers such as recruiters and agencies in SeaTable. You can invite them to a base or just share individual views to give them access to very specific data from your team. You define which authorizations you assign and can control which people can see and edit which data in your SeaTable Base.'
          - q: 'For whom is time tracking software really worthwhile?'
            a: 'Time recording systems are not only useful for large companies. Even small teams benefit from centralized and structured time tracking, as they save time, reduce errors and maintain an overview. All in all, time recording systems make sense for small companies with just a few employees.'

---

Commit message:

work-time-tracking, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/arbeitszeiterfassung/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Work Time Tracking with SeaTable – Efficient, Digital & Compliant Tracking of Work Hours'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Time Tracking with SeaTable | Efficient, Digital & Compliant'
    description: 'Track work hours with SeaTable: digital, free, GDPR-compliant. Efficient and legal management of hours, vacations, and sick leave.'
date: '2025-08-21'
url: '/work-time-tracking/'
aliases:
  - '/time-tracking'
  - '/arbeitszeiterfassung'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'Digital time recording with SeaTable: time recording for your company'
      text: 'Forget time clocks, time sheets and Excel tables for recording working hours. There is no need for expensive time recording systems. Reduce the time and effort spent on vacation requests and sick notes - free of charge in the free version, efficient, intuitive, clear and flexibly adaptable to your individual needs.'
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: 7b72578c0e714750954a
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes: 
        - curved
        - bg-seatable-blue
      title: "The ideal tool for precise working time recording"
      subtitle: Simple, precise, GDPR-compliant
      description: Recording working hours is more than just a bureaucratic obligation - it ensures that both you as an employer and your employees comply with their rights and obligations. It creates transparency about hours worked, helps to avoid overtime and ensures statutory rest periods.
 
      items:
        - text: protects your employees from overload
        - text: ensures that breaks and rest periods are observed
        - text: optimizes internal processes
        - text: enables efficient planning of personnel
        - text: lets you react to bottlenecks in good time
        - text: 100% GDPR compliant
        - text: flexibly customizable data structure
      image: /images/Landing-Page_Arbeitszeiterfassung_Screenshot_ 2_transparent.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable time tracking with hours overview and daily balances'

    - name: content-11
      weight: 5
      title: Working time recording with SeaTable - many advantages
      subtitle: Flexible, efficient, safe
      items:
      - text: With a time recording app, you save time and reduce administrative work. SeaTable offers numerous advantages for time recording in small and large companies! Use the free SeaTable database software instead of expensive working time calculators. The free subscription gives you the basic functions of a spreadsheet and more... Link records, capture information with over 20 column types, and add checkboxes, buttons, checkboxes, images and files. Try it out now!
      image: /images/Landing-Page_Arbeitszeiterfassung_Screenshot_1_transparent.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable table for digital employee time tracking'

    - name: content-11
      weight: 6
      title: User-friendly data acquisition
      subtitle: Intuitive, simple, location-independent
      items:
      - text: In SeaTable, you can make time tracking online, intuitive and user-friendly, because your employees record working times via intuitive web forms with clear instructions. SeaTable creates a new entry for each form, which only managers can see and edit. The software automatically calculates hours worked as well as overtime or undertime and highlights the daily balance in color.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_benutzerfreundliche_datenerfassung_neu.png
      image_position: left
      image_alt: 'SeaTable web form for user-friendly time entry'

    - name: content-11
      weight: 7
      title: Data visualization
      subtitle: Monitoring, reporting, optimization
      items:
      - text: SeaTable's timesheet looks similar to other calculators at first glance, but offers advanced visualizations such as filters, sorting, grouping and graphical plugins such as calendars, [Kanban boards]({{< relref "templates/projects/kanban-board" >}}) or statistics to organize your data clearly. With SeaTable, you can create individual apps, e.g. a management app in which you can keep an eye on overtime, vacations and sick notes on the dashboard and approve or reject requests.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_datenvisualisierung_neu.png
      image_position: right
      image_alt: 'SeaTable analysis of working hours with calendar and statistics views'

    - name: content-11
      weight: 8
      title: Central storage location
      subtitle: Standardized, secure, immediately available
      items:
      - text: When employees record working times in different tables, merging them often becomes tedious, error-prone and time-consuming. With SeaTable, all data flows centrally into a secure, [online database]({{< relref "posts/online-datenbank-kostenlos" >}}). Views, approvals and authorizations allow you to control who sees and edits which data - efficiently, orderly and accessible at all times.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_zentraler_speicherort_neu.png
      image_position: left
      image_alt: 'SeaTable overview with centrally stored working time and absence data'

    - name: content-11
      weight: 9
      title: Collaborative working
      subtitle: Team-oriented, efficient, flexible
      items:
      - text: Especially for hourly employees, working time data must be transferred to the accounting department - often laboriously via email or file sharing. With our [AI no-code-platform]({{< relref "/" >}}), you can save this effort by [creating an app]({{< relref "posts/20250318-app-erstellen" >}}) or sharing the data via a link, either as read access to the entire base or only to a specific view. However, sharing individual views is reserved for SeaTable's paid subscriptions.
      image: /images/Landing-Page_arbeitszeiterfassung_kollaboration_neu.png
      image_position: right
      image_alt: 'SeaTable view for collaborative editing of time tracking data in teams'

    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 11
      title: Effortlessly comply with legal requirements - with SeaTable
      subtitle: Compliance, transparency, data protection
      text: "In May 2019, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled that companies in the EU must systematically record their employees' working hours. As an employer, you are therefore strongly recommended to use a digital time recording system that not only records your employees' working hours, but also issues early warnings in the event of imminent overruns."
      items:
      - icon: circle-check
        headline: Comply with prescribed working hours
        text: "With SeaTable's working time calculator, you will automatically receive a notification in the event of overruns. Monitor break times and the minimum rest period of 11 hours to ensure that all regulations are adhered to"

      - icon: lock
        headline: Data protection according to the strictest specifications
        text: "SeaTable is GDPR-compliant and protects your data with servers in Germany, optionally also on-premises. Rest assured that your sensitive employee information is secure and all data protection guidelines are adhered to."

      - icon: puzzle-piece
        headline: More than just recording working hours
        text: "SeaTable allows you to optimize your mobile time recording and employee data management. Working hours, vacation requests or sick notes - all stored centrally. Maintain an overview and process administrative tasks more efficiently." 

            
    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 12
      title: Flexible and scalable - the No. 1 for your HR team
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id: 
    
    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 13
      title: Tailor-made template for a customizable working time recording system
      subtitle: Flexible, individual, strong
      description: 'With the free template for time recording and other templates from the HR area of Seatable, you can create your own individual HR system based on a modular principle. All basic functions are included in the free Free subscription; the Enterprise subscription is required for full functions and automation. You can also use additional SeaTable features to customize your digital timesheet. Import our templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.'
      
      items:
          - text: Working time recording
            image: /images/bewerbermanagement-template-arbeitszeiterfassung.svg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for time tracking in HR"
          - text: Personnel recruitment
            image: /images/bewerbermanagement-template-personalrekrutierung.svg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for recruiting as part of your HR system"
          - text: Employee onboarding
            image: /images/bewerbermanagement-template-onboarding.svg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for employee onboarding in the HR system"
      buttons:
        - label: Discover all templates
          link: "templates"
    
    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 10
      title: Time savings through automation
      subtitle: Automated, process-optimized
      description: With an Enterprise subscription, SeaTable can perform actions automatically, e.g. send notifications, edit entries or create links, thus reducing the workload for recurring work steps. Automations inform you, for example, if working times exceed the legal upper limits or breaks are not observed - fully automatically as soon as values are outside the defined rules. You can seamlessly optimize and automate your workflows with integrations such as Zapier, Make or n8n.
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'

    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 16
      title: SeaTable offers extensive functions in all price models
      subtitle: Cloud or self-hosted?
      description: 
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Perfect for companies that want to get started quickly and without an extensive IT infrastructure - flexible and scalable.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Cloud project plan template as a basis for HR and time tracking processes'
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: For companies that want to retain full control over their data, SeaTable Server offers an on-premises option.
            image: /images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Server action plan template for internal HR workflows'
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: For companies that need the simplicity of the cloud and the flexibility of a self-hosted system.  
            image: /images/asana-dedicated.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Dedicated environment for scalable HR and time tracking solutions'

    - name: "content-21"
      weight: 15
      title: Simple time recording free of charge with SeaTable
      text: How can you record your employees' working hours quickly, easily and in compliance with the law? With a SeaTable template specially tailored to this use case!
      items:
          - headline: 'All working hours at a glance'
            text: 'As with any SeaTable template, it is a database with different tables that you can customize to your needs. The first table offers an admin view that includes all working hours, vacation requests and sick notes. This allows you as a manager to keep track of attendances and absences in the team.'
          - headline: 'Individual views for more data protection'
            text: 'Using personalized views filtered by user ID, you can control exactly who can see which data and thus create each employee s own hours account with the data relevant to them. SeaTable automatically calculates hours worked as well as overtime and undertime compared to regular working hours.'
          - headline: 'Minimum administration, maximum user-friendliness'
            text: 'In the employee app created with SeaTable, your employees record working hours, vacation requests and sick notes directly via web forms. Clear instructions in the input fields ensure simple operation - minimum effort, maximum user-friendliness.'
          - headline: 'Detailed statistics at a glance'
            text: 'After submitting, SeaTable automatically inserts the data into the tables, which you as a manager can approve or reject. Your dashboard shows statistics on overtime, vacation and sick leave, supplemented by a calendar overview.'
               
    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 17
      title: The ideal solution for digitalized working time recording 
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id: 
   
    - name: faq
      weight: 20
      title: FAQ – Answers to the most important questions about recording working time with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'How does SeaTable map working time recording in the company?'
            a: 'With SeaTable, you can record and document your employees  working hours in accordance with current legislation and with minimal administrative effort. All processes relating to working time recording, vacation requests and sick notes are managed centrally in an online database - no more need for scattered timesheets! All you need to use it is an Internet browser and an e-mail address.'
          - q: 'Does SeaTable offer more than just working time recording?'
            a: 'Yes, digital time tracking is just one of the many use cases. SeaTable offers solutions for recruiting, onboarding and many other [HR processes]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/hr" >}}) - all in one flexible platform. Discover our templates and get started right away with a free account.'
          - q: 'Is the time tracking template free of charge?'
            a: 'Yes, our time tracking template is free to use with SeaTable Free. This subscription is automatically assigned to you when you register in SeaTable. With an Enterprise subscription, you also have access to convenient **AI-supported automations** that save you a lot of manual clicks.'
          - q: 'Is the employer obliged to record time?'
            a: 'Yes, the European Court of Justice ruled in May 2019 that companies in the EU must record all of their employees working hours. The Federal Labor Court confirmed this in its ruling of 13 September 2022.'
          - q: 'How must working hours be recorded?'
            a: 'A draft law from the Federal Ministry of Labor states "The start, end and duration of daily working hours must be recorded electronically and, as a rule, on the same day."'
          - q: 'Can SeaTable be used to record working hours in a legally compliant manner?'
            a: 'Yes, with SeaTable your employees can record their working hours electronically and on a daily basis in an online database. All they need is an e-mail address and an Internet connection. With our template for recording working hours, you can create a separate working time account for each employee, in which overtime, working hours, vacations and sick days are clearly visible. This allows you to meet all current requirements and, if necessary, you can flexibly adapt your solution to new requirements or changes in the legal situation.'
          - q: 'Can you work with external providers and agencies in SeaTable?'
            a: 'Definitely! Many teams work with external service providers such as recruiters and agencies in SeaTable. You can invite them to a base or just share individual views to give them access to very specific data from your team. You define which authorizations you assign and can control which people can see and edit which data in your SeaTable Base.'
          - q: 'For whom is time tracking software really worthwhile?'
            a: 'Time recording systems are not only useful for large companies. Even small teams benefit from centralized and structured time tracking, as they save time, reduce errors and maintain an overview. All in all, time recording systems make sense for small companies with just a few employees.'

---
