src/content/pages/industry-solutions/software-development/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'IT service management with SeaTable: efficient and flexible'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'IT service management - flexible & scalable | SeaTable'
    description: 'Optimize your IT service management with SeaTable: No-code platform for flexible workflows, automation and GDPR-compliant ITSM processes.'
date: '2025-04-03'
url: '/it-service-management'
aliases:
    - '/en/softwareentwicklung/'
    - '/softwareentwicklung/'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      subtitle: The No-Code Solution for Your IT Organization
      title: IT Service Management with SeaTable
      text: In an increasingly digitalized world, efficient and flexible IT Service Management (ITSM) is essential to meet the complex demands of modern IT organizations. With SeaTable, you can design your ITSM processes flexibly and securely—without compromising compliance or innovation!
      classes:
          - bg-gray-200
      template: 51d678ca8b004e9b9b79
      buttons:
          - label: Get Started Now
            link: pages/registration
            style: primary
          - label: Explore Features
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-seatable-blue
      title: ITSM Processes Tailored to Your Needs
      subtitle: Flexibility, Security, Efficiency
      description: With the user-friendly no- and low-code platform, you can simply and efficiently map your IT Service Management processes! SeaTable offers customizable workflows that integrate flexibly into your existing systems—keeping you agile and well-prepared for future developments.
      items:
          - text: GDPR-compliant
          - text: 'Easy implementation: No-Code or Low-Code'
          - text: 'Automated workflows'
          - text: Permission management
          - text: Universal App Builder for frontend use
          - text: SeaTable Cloud or SeaTable Server
      image: /images/Landing-Page_Software-Entwicklung_ITSM-individuell-1.png

    - name: content-25
      weight: 3
      title: Powerful Features for Your IT Service Management
      subtitle: No-Code Solution for Efficient Work
      text: 'SeaTable combines the advantages of a spreadsheet with the power of a database and a no-code app builder. This combination enables IT teams to efficiently manage complex workflows and data while implementing their IT strategy agilely, making SeaTable an indispensable solution:'
      items:
          - headline: Customizable Tables and Views
            text: User-defined table structures and visualizations for better organization of IT projects.
            image: /images/Software-Deevelopment_Views.png
          - headline: Calculations and Formula Editor
            text: Detailed evaluations and analyses with an intuitive formula editor and statistics module.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Formula.png
          - headline: Granular Access Rights
            text: Manage access and editing rights at various levels for maximum security and compliance.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Permission-sets.png
          - headline: Versioning and Change Tracking
            text: Track all changes in real time and restore previous versions.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Logs.png
          - headline: Project Management App
            text: With SeaTable's no-code app builder, create web-based apps—no programming knowledge required. In such a project management app, you can precisely control which data your project team members can see and how it's visualized.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Universal-App.png

    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 4
      title: 'Connect SeaTable with Your IT Organization'
      subtitle: 'Standard Integrations'
      description: Link SeaTable with all the apps you already use and leverage it as the central hub for your entire IT Service Management.
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'

    - name: 'content-9'
      weight: 5
      title: IT Service Management Without Compromise
      subtitle: Benefits of SeaTable
      description: SeaTable supports IT transformation processes through its flexible customization options and [automated workflows]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/individual" >}}). By combining powerful data management with intuitive application development, you can digitize and automate even complex processes quickly and securely.
      items:
          - headline: Security Requirements and Innovations
            text: Drive innovation without compromising security? SeaTable ensures compliance with the highest security standards. Thanks to granular access rights and **GDPR-compliant data processing**, you can innovatively design your IT processes without compromising data security.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: License Management and Compliance
            text: With SeaTable, you always keep track of your licenses and can ensure that your organization remains **compliant at all times**. Automated workflows help efficiently monitor and manage license terms and compliance policies.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Custom Automations and Workflows
            text: Why complete tasks manually when you can automate them? Create **custom automations** to reduce routine tasks, minimize errors, and increase efficiency.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Customizable Table Structures and Views
            text: User-defined table structures and display options like [Kanban boards]({{< relref "posts/kanban board freeware" >}}), calendars, and Gantt charts enable better organization of IT Service Management processes.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Custom Dashboards and Forms
            text: Create **tailored dashboards** and forms for requirements analysis, product development, and reporting.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Flexible and Secure Software Management
            text: SeaTable offers innovative, customizable software management that helps IT organizations **optimize and digitize their ITSM processes**.
            icon: circle-question

    - name: banner-2
      weight: 6
      title: Complex IT Processes Made Simple <br>– with SeaTable
      buttons:
          - label: Register Now and Get Started
            link: pages/registration

    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 10
      title: Get Started With Our Free ITSM Templates
      subtitle: Templates
      description:
          "With our free, flexibly customizable IT Service Management templates, you can start right away. All templates are infinitely expandable, allowing them to be tailored precisely to your IT organization's specific requirements:<br><br>
          **Import templates into your SeaTable account with just one click!**"
      items:
          - text: Software Testing
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Software-Test_Template.png
            image_alt: 'This template helps you organize test cases, create test plans, and track results. It can be easily expanded to include additional test types or checks.'
          - text: Bug Tracker
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Bug-Tracker_Template.png
            image_alt: 'Keep track of software bugs at all times: This template lets you report, prioritize, and monitor the status of bug fixes in real-time.'
          - text: Product Launch
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Product-Launch_Template.png
            image_alt: 'Efficiently plan and coordinate new product launches. This template helps you manage tasks, responsibilities, and deadlines.'
          - text: Technology Roadmap
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Technology-Roadmap_Template.png
            image_alt: 'Plan and coordinate new product introductions efficiently. This template helps you manage tasks, responsibilities, and deadlines.'
          - text: Feature Requests
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Feature-Request_Template.png
            image_alt: 'Collect, prioritize, and plan stakeholder feature requests. Customize the template to add additional criteria or rating systems.'
          - text: Kanban Board
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Kanban_Template.png
            image_alt: 'Use a customizable Kanban board to track the progress of IT projects, tasks, and responsibilities.'
      buttons:
          - label: Discover All Templates
            link: 'templates'

    - name: 'content-16'
      weight: 11
      title: ITSM Processes in SeaTable
      subtitle: No Coding Required
      description: 'Digital and automated processes are crucial for your IT success. SeaTable provides all the features needed to efficiently manage key service management processes.'
      items:
          - headline: Incident Management and IT Ticketing System
            text: Efficiently manage and track IT incidents in real-time. Use custom workflows for outage management and rapid problem resolution.
          - headline: Problem Management
            text: "Use SeaTable's features to document and optimize problem solutions and create a knowledge base."
          - headline: Change Management
            text: Plan and manage IT infrastructure changes systematically and securely. Automated workflows help control the entire change process from requirement analysis to implementation.
          - headline: License Management
            text: "Use SeaTable's license management software to efficiently manage licenses and ensure compliance. Centrally organize and monitor your license data to optimize costs and minimize risks."
          - headline: Software Management
            text: Use SeaTable for effective software management to plan and execute software projects and developments in a structured and transparent way.
          - headline: Scalability and Flexibility
            text: Different license models (Free, Plus, Enterprise) and deployment options (Dedicated, Server) adapt to your requirements. No credit card is needed to test the platform, allowing you to immediately start optimizing your ITSM processes.

    - name: 'content-11'
      weight: 12
      title: IT Transformation With SeaTable
      subtitle: The Solution for All IT Service Management Systems
      items:
          - text: Accelerate your digital transformation while aligning your IT strategy with overarching business goals! With SeaTable, you can customize [digital processes]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/operations" >}}) to your company's specific requirements. Through integrations and flexible data models, you can effectively implement digital strategies and accelerate your IT transformation.
            image: /images/Landing-Page_Software-Entwickler_Digitale-Transformation-2.png
            image_position: right

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 13
      title: IT Service Management With SeaTable
      subtitle: "Make the Switch Now – It's That Easy!"
      text: 'SeaTable offers a future-proof IT Service Management solution that supports IT teams through flexibility, security, and user-friendliness. The platform enables quick implementation of ITSM processes and integrates various service management frameworks for efficient IT organization.'
      items:
          - icon: signature
            headline: Easy Transition
            text: 'Switching to SeaTable is child’s play: Simply register with your email address and get started right away – no credit card required, no hidden costs!<br><br>SeaTable offers numerous import options that make migrating your data simple.'
          - icon: building
            headline: Free Templates
            text: "Start with a free IT template and see for yourself SeaTable's power and flexibility! You'll quickly notice how SeaTable can elevate your IT Service Management to a new level."
          - icon: substack
            headline: Comprehensive Support
            text: "We're here for you from the start if you have questions about our free project management tool. We're also happy to create a custom support package so you can fully leverage SeaTable's potential for your projects."
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Cost-Effective Solution
            text: "Manage your projects completely free with SeaTable's Free version – or scale SeaTable according to your needs: If you require advanced features or more storage capacity for your projects, you can easily upgrade to an affordable premium version."

    - name: faq
      weight: 14
      title: FAQ – IT Service Management with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'How does SeaTable support the IT transformation of my IT organization?'
            a: 'SeaTable provides a flexible No-Code and Low-Code platform that simplifies the adaptation and digitization of ITSM processes. It supports IT transformation processes through easy customization and integration into existing systems.'
          - q: 'What is ITSM and what significance does it have for my IT organization?'
            a: 'IT Service Management (ITSM) encompasses all processes and activities required to provide and manage IT services for customers. It is crucial for the efficiency and quality of IT services and enables structured management of IT infrastructure.'
          - q: What does ITIL mean?
            a: 'ITIL simply explained: ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library) is a service management framework for managing IT services efficiently. With SeaTable, you can integrate the ITIL Service Management Framework into your ITSM service management processes and adapt it flexibly to map specific requirements. This way, you can optimize your IT processes and increase the efficiency of your IT services.'
          - q: 'Is SeaTable as an IT Service Management software GDPR-compliant?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable is fully GDPR-compliant and offers the highest security standards for protecting sensitive data in your IT. Our servers are located exclusively in Germany. The platform also provides IT security functions for monitoring and managing access rights.'
          - q: 'What advantages does SeaTable offer compared to other ITSM software solutions like Atlassian?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers greater flexibility and adaptability than traditional ITSM suites like Atlassian ITSM. With a No-Code and Low-Code platform that requires no programming skills, you can design and optimize your IT processes more efficiently.'
          - q: 'How can SeaTable improve my license management?'
            a: 'SeaTable provides comprehensive license management software that simplifies the management of software licenses and ensures your IT organization remains compliant. It helps you monitor license requirements and reduce costs. Take the next step to improve your IT Service Management and register now for free with SeaTable. Discover the future of service management with SeaTable – flexible, secure, and fully GDPR-compliant.'

    - name: banner-2
      weight: 15
      title: 'Your efficient ITSM: Register now for SeaTable for free'
      buttons:
          - label: Register now
            link: pages/registration

    - name: form-contact
      weight: 16
      title: Do you have questions about SeaTable for IT organizations and as an IT Service Management tool?
      description: We are happy to assist you in answering your questions about SeaTable as an IT Service Management tool.
---

Commit message:

IT Service Management, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/industry-solutions/software-development/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'IT service management with SeaTable: efficient and flexible'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'IT service management - flexible & scalable | SeaTable'
    description: 'Optimize your IT service management with SeaTable: No-code platform for flexible workflows, automation and GDPR-compliant ITSM processes.'
date: '2025-04-03'
url: '/it-service-management'
aliases:
    - '/en/softwareentwicklung/'
    - '/softwareentwicklung/'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      subtitle: The No-Code Solution for Your IT Organization
      title: IT Service Management with SeaTable
      text: In an increasingly digitalized world, efficient and flexible IT Service Management (ITSM) is essential to meet the complex demands of modern IT organizations. With SeaTable, you can design your ITSM processes flexibly and securely—without compromising compliance or innovation!
      classes:
          - bg-gray-200
      template: 51d678ca8b004e9b9b79
      buttons:
          - label: Get Started Now
            link: pages/registration
            style: primary
          - label: Explore Features
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-seatable-blue
      title: ITSM Processes Tailored to Your Needs
      subtitle: Flexibility, Security, Efficiency
      description: With the user-friendly no- and low-code platform, you can simply and efficiently map your IT Service Management processes! SeaTable offers customizable workflows that integrate flexibly into your existing systems—keeping you agile and well-prepared for future developments.
      items:
          - text: GDPR-compliant
          - text: 'Easy implementation: No-Code or Low-Code'
          - text: 'Automated workflows'
          - text: Permission management
          - text: Universal App Builder for frontend use
          - text: SeaTable Cloud or SeaTable Server
      image: /images/Landing-Page_Software-Entwicklung_ITSM-individuell-1.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable interface for individual IT service management with tickets and assets'

    - name: content-25
      weight: 3
      title: Powerful Features for Your IT Service Management
      subtitle: No-Code Solution for Efficient Work
      text: 'SeaTable combines the advantages of a spreadsheet with the power of a database and a no-code app builder. This combination enables IT teams to efficiently manage complex workflows and data while implementing their IT strategy agilely, making SeaTable an indispensable solution:'
      items:
          - headline: Customizable Tables and Views
            text: User-defined table structures and visualizations for better organization of IT projects.
            image: /images/Software-Deevelopment_Views.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable table and board views for organizing IT projects'
          - headline: Calculations and Formula Editor
            text: Detailed evaluations and analyses with an intuitive formula editor and statistics module.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Formula.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable formula editor and statistics for IT analyses'
          - headline: Granular Access Rights
            text: Manage access and editing rights at various levels for maximum security and compliance.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Permission-sets.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable view for granular access rights and permission sets'
          - headline: Versioning and Change Tracking
            text: Track all changes in real time and restore previous versions.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Logs.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable change logs for versioning and audit trails in ITSM'
          - headline: Project Management App
            text: With SeaTable's no-code app builder, create web-based apps—no programming knowledge required. In such a project management app, you can precisely control which data your project team members can see and how it's visualized.
            image: /images/Software-Development_Universal-App.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable project management app for web-based IT service management workflows'

    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 4
      title: 'Connect SeaTable with Your IT Organization'
      subtitle: 'Standard Integrations'
      description: Link SeaTable with all the apps you already use and leverage it as the central hub for your entire IT Service Management.
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'

    - name: 'content-9'
      weight: 5
      title: IT Service Management Without Compromise
      subtitle: Benefits of SeaTable
      description: SeaTable supports IT transformation processes through its flexible customization options and [automated workflows]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/individual" >}}). By combining powerful data management with intuitive application development, you can digitize and automate even complex processes quickly and securely.
      items:
          - headline: Security Requirements and Innovations
            text: Drive innovation without compromising security? SeaTable ensures compliance with the highest security standards. Thanks to granular access rights and **GDPR-compliant data processing**, you can innovatively design your IT processes without compromising data security.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: License Management and Compliance
            text: With SeaTable, you always keep track of your licenses and can ensure that your organization remains **compliant at all times**. Automated workflows help efficiently monitor and manage license terms and compliance policies.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Custom Automations and Workflows
            text: Why complete tasks manually when you can automate them? Create **custom automations** to reduce routine tasks, minimize errors, and increase efficiency.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Customizable Table Structures and Views
            text: User-defined table structures and display options like [Kanban boards]({{< relref "posts/kanban board freeware" >}}), calendars, and Gantt charts enable better organization of IT Service Management processes.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Custom Dashboards and Forms
            text: Create **tailored dashboards** and forms for requirements analysis, product development, and reporting.
            icon: circle-question
          - headline: Flexible and Secure Software Management
            text: SeaTable offers innovative, customizable software management that helps IT organizations **optimize and digitize their ITSM processes**.
            icon: circle-question

    - name: banner-2
      weight: 6
      title: Complex IT Processes Made Simple <br>– with SeaTable
      buttons:
          - label: Register Now and Get Started
            link: pages/registration

    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 10
      title: Get Started With Our Free ITSM Templates
      subtitle: Templates
      description:
          "With our free, flexibly customizable IT Service Management templates, you can start right away. All templates are infinitely expandable, allowing them to be tailored precisely to your IT organization's specific requirements:<br><br>
          **Import templates into your SeaTable account with just one click!**"
      items:
          - text: Software Testing
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Software-Test_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable ITSM template for organizing software tests and test cases'
          - text: Bug Tracker
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Bug-Tracker_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable bug tracker template for logging and tracking IT issues'
          - text: Product Launch
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Product-Launch_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable template for planning product launches in IT projects'
          - text: Technology Roadmap
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Technology-Roadmap_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable template for technology roadmap and IT strategy planning'
          - text: Feature Requests
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Feature-Request_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable template for capturing and prioritizing feature requests'
          - text: Kanban Board
            image: /images/Software-Dev_-Kanban_Template.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Kanban board template for IT service management tasks'
      buttons:
          - label: Discover All Templates
            link: 'templates'

    - name: 'content-16'
      weight: 11
      title: ITSM Processes in SeaTable
      subtitle: No Coding Required
      description: 'Digital and automated processes are crucial for your IT success. SeaTable provides all the features needed to efficiently manage key service management processes.'
      items:
          - headline: Incident Management and IT Ticketing System
            text: Efficiently manage and track IT incidents in real-time. Use custom workflows for outage management and rapid problem resolution.
          - headline: Problem Management
            text: "Use SeaTable's features to document and optimize problem solutions and create a knowledge base."
          - headline: Change Management
            text: Plan and manage IT infrastructure changes systematically and securely. Automated workflows help control the entire change process from requirement analysis to implementation.
          - headline: License Management
            text: "Use SeaTable's license management software to efficiently manage licenses and ensure compliance. Centrally organize and monitor your license data to optimize costs and minimize risks."
          - headline: Software Management
            text: Use SeaTable for effective software management to plan and execute software projects and developments in a structured and transparent way.
          - headline: Scalability and Flexibility
            text: Different license models (Free, Plus, Enterprise) and deployment options (Dedicated, Server) adapt to your requirements. No credit card is needed to test the platform, allowing you to immediately start optimizing your ITSM processes.

    - name: 'content-11'
      weight: 12
      title: IT Transformation With SeaTable
      subtitle: The Solution for All IT Service Management Systems
      items:
          - text: Accelerate your digital transformation while aligning your IT strategy with overarching business goals! With SeaTable, you can customize [digital processes]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/operations" >}}) to your company's specific requirements. Through integrations and flexible data models, you can effectively implement digital strategies and accelerate your IT transformation.
            image: /images/Landing-Page_Software-Entwickler_Digitale-Transformation-2.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable dashboard for digital transformation and IT service management'
            image_position: right

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 13
      title: IT Service Management With SeaTable
      subtitle: "Make the Switch Now – It's That Easy!"
      text: 'SeaTable offers a future-proof IT Service Management solution that supports IT teams through flexibility, security, and user-friendliness. The platform enables quick implementation of ITSM processes and integrates various service management frameworks for efficient IT organization.'
      items:
          - icon: signature
            headline: Easy Transition
            text: 'Switching to SeaTable is child’s play: Simply register with your email address and get started right away – no credit card required, no hidden costs!<br><br>SeaTable offers numerous import options that make migrating your data simple.'
          - icon: building
            headline: Free Templates
            text: "Start with a free IT template and see for yourself SeaTable's power and flexibility! You'll quickly notice how SeaTable can elevate your IT Service Management to a new level."
          - icon: substack
            headline: Comprehensive Support
            text: "We're here for you from the start if you have questions about our free project management tool. We're also happy to create a custom support package so you can fully leverage SeaTable's potential for your projects."
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Cost-Effective Solution
            text: "Manage your projects completely free with SeaTable's Free version – or scale SeaTable according to your needs: If you require advanced features or more storage capacity for your projects, you can easily upgrade to an affordable premium version."

    - name: faq
      weight: 14
      title: FAQ – IT Service Management with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'How does SeaTable support the IT transformation of my IT organization?'
            a: 'SeaTable provides a flexible No-Code and Low-Code platform that simplifies the adaptation and digitization of ITSM processes. It supports IT transformation processes through easy customization and integration into existing systems.'
          - q: 'What is ITSM and what significance does it have for my IT organization?'
            a: 'IT Service Management (ITSM) encompasses all processes and activities required to provide and manage IT services for customers. It is crucial for the efficiency and quality of IT services and enables structured management of IT infrastructure.'
          - q: What does ITIL mean?
            a: 'ITIL simply explained: ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library) is a service management framework for managing IT services efficiently. With SeaTable, you can integrate the ITIL Service Management Framework into your ITSM service management processes and adapt it flexibly to map specific requirements. This way, you can optimize your IT processes and increase the efficiency of your IT services.'
          - q: 'Is SeaTable as an IT Service Management software GDPR-compliant?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable is fully GDPR-compliant and offers the highest security standards for protecting sensitive data in your IT. Our servers are located exclusively in Germany. The platform also provides IT security functions for monitoring and managing access rights.'
          - q: 'What advantages does SeaTable offer compared to other ITSM software solutions like Atlassian?'
            a: 'SeaTable offers greater flexibility and adaptability than traditional ITSM suites like Atlassian ITSM. With a No-Code and Low-Code platform that requires no programming skills, you can design and optimize your IT processes more efficiently.'
          - q: 'How can SeaTable improve my license management?'
            a: 'SeaTable provides comprehensive license management software that simplifies the management of software licenses and ensures your IT organization remains compliant. It helps you monitor license requirements and reduce costs. Take the next step to improve your IT Service Management and register now for free with SeaTable. Discover the future of service management with SeaTable – flexible, secure, and fully GDPR-compliant.'

    - name: banner-2
      weight: 15
      title: 'Your efficient ITSM: Register now for SeaTable for free'
      buttons:
          - label: Register now
            link: pages/registration

    - name: form-contact
      weight: 16
      title: Do you have questions about SeaTable for IT organizations and as an IT Service Management tool?
      description: We are happy to assist you in answering your questions about SeaTable as an IT Service Management tool.
---
