src/content/templates/product-design/product-development-feedback/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Product development feedback'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/product-development-feedback'
category: 'product-design'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Product Development Feedback: Collect with SeaTable'
    description: 'Gather structured product feedback: analyze feature requests, complaints and ideas—centralized and actionable, all in SeaTable.'
template: '9ea387bd5e6a43388286'
---

Feedback from customers is elementarily important in product development in order to optimize the product. Even if you think you know your product very well, looking at and assessing the customers helps to focus on their wishes and needs.

This important information is obtained through customer feedback in the form of interviews. The collected data can be used to draw conclusions about customer satisfaction, as well as to create evaluations of individual features and complaints. This template lays the foundation for a product development feedback tool.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions or uncertainties, we recommend our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).

Commit message:

Description template cat. product design

src/content/templates/product-design/product-development-feedback/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Product development feedback'
description: 'Capture customer feedback in one place, analyze it by feature and derive targeted product improvements and priorities.'
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/product-development-feedback'
category: 'product-design'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Product Development Feedback: Collect with SeaTable'
    description: 'Gather structured product feedback: analyze feature requests, complaints and ideas—centralized and actionable, all in SeaTable.'
template: '9ea387bd5e6a43388286'
---

Feedback from customers is elementarily important in product development in order to optimize the product. Even if you think you know your product very well, looking at and assessing the customers helps to focus on their wishes and needs.

This important information is obtained through customer feedback in the form of interviews. The collected data can be used to draw conclusions about customer satisfaction, as well as to create evaluations of individual features and complaints. This template lays the foundation for a product development feedback tool.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions or uncertainties, we recommend our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).
