src/content/templates/projects/bibliography/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Bibliography'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/bibliography'
category: 'projects'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: 'afeb7cc5783744bfa3f7'
---

Academic work involves a great deal of effort. Creating bibliographies takes just as much time as finding, viewing and evaluating sources. To make this work easier for you, SeaTable has developed an online template for reference management.

Whether books, journals or online sources - keep track of all relevant studies on your topic, record the information on your literature and categorize it according to your requirements. Marvel at how SeaTable uses a formula to create the references for the collected works in the desired citation style and easily transfer them to your bibliography (Table 1). Assign the sources to different projects, enter the contact details of your lecturers and keep an eye on the submission deadlines to make your academic work even more structured (Table 2).

You can find more information on how to use online literature management effectively and which programs are available for this in ourblog article.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions or problems, we recommend our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).

​

Commit message:

Template title tag, meta & url

src/content/templates/projects/bibliography/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Bibliography'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/bibliography'
category: 'projects'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Bibliography Template: Organize References Easily'
    description: 'Create and manage your bibliography the smart way: free, structured template for books, articles, and web sources.'
template: 'afeb7cc5783744bfa3f7'
---

Academic work involves a great deal of effort. Creating bibliographies takes just as much time as finding, viewing and evaluating sources. To make this work easier for you, SeaTable has developed an online template for reference management.

Whether books, journals or online sources - keep track of all relevant studies on your topic, record the information on your literature and categorize it according to your requirements. Marvel at how SeaTable uses a formula to create the references for the collected works in the desired citation style and easily transfer them to your bibliography (Table 1). Assign the sources to different projects, enter the contact details of your lecturers and keep an eye on the submission deadlines to make your academic work even more structured (Table 2).

You can find more information on how to use online literature management effectively and which programs are available for this in ourblog article.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. If you have any questions or problems, we recommend our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).

​
