src/content/help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/verwaltung-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Management of a shared data set'
date: 2024-06-11
lastmod: '2024-06-11'
categories:
    - 'gemeinsame-datensaetze'
author: 'kgr'
url: '/help/verwaltung-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes'
---

Once you have created a shared data set, you can perform various operations to manage your data set. You can access the overview of your shared data records via the start page.

## How to manage your shared data records

1. Open the **home** page of SeaTable.

![Management of a shared data set](images/overview-common-datasets.png)

3. Click on **Shared data record**. You are now in the **overview** of all shared data records.
4. Move the mouse over a shared data record and click on the **three dots** on the far right.
5. Select the desired option in the following menu.

![More operations for common datasets](images/More-operations-for-common-datasets.png)

{{< warning  headline="Authorization required"  text="You can only perform these management operations if you are the **creator of** the shared data record. The **three dots are hidden** for data records that are only released to one of your groups." />}}

## Retrieve details of a shared data record

If you use shared data sets extensively in your team, it can be easy to lose track. To which **groups** is a shared data record released and in which **bases** is it integrated? You can view this information under **Details**.

![Details of a common dataset](images/Details-of-a-common-dataset.png)

![Common dataset details](images/Common-dataset-details.png)

## Rename a shared data set

If you want to change the **name** of your shared data set, simply click on **Rename**.

![Rename common dataset option](images/Rename-common-dataset-option.png)

![Rename common dataset](images/Rename-common-dataset.png)

Enter the new name and confirm with **Send**.

## Manage access authorizations

You can use the **Manage access** option to share your shared data set with another group or withdraw access again. You can find out exactly how this works [here]({{< relref "help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/freigabe-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes-an-eine-andere-gruppe" >}}).

## Force synchronization with the shared data set

As the creator of a shared data record, you can force the **synchronization** of dependent tables. You can find out the consequences and advantages of this [here]({{< relref "help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/synchronisation-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes" >}}).

## Delete a shared data record

If you want to delete a shared data record, you will find all the important information [here]({{< relref "help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/loeschen-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes" >}}).

Commit message:

Bugfixes release/share & common datasets

src/content/help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/verwaltung-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Management of a common data set'
date: 2024-06-11
lastmod: '2024-06-11'
categories:
    - 'gemeinsame-datensaetze'
author: 'kgr'
url: '/help/verwaltung-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes'
---

Once you have created a common data set, you can perform various operations to manage your data set. You can access the overview of your common datasets via the start page.

## How to manage your common datasets

1. Open the **home page** of SeaTable.

![Management of a common data set](images/overview-common-datasets.png)

2. Click on **common dataset**. You are now in the **overview** of all common datasets.
3. Move the mouse over a common dataset and click on the **three dots** on the far right.
4. Select the desired option in the following menu.

![More operations for common datasets](images/More-operations-for-common-datasets.png)

{{< warning  headline="Authorization required"  text="You can only perform these management operations if you are the **creator of** the common dataset. The **three dots are hidden** for datasets that are only shared with one of your groups." />}}

## Retrieve details of a common dataset

If you use common data sets extensively in your team, it can be easy to lose track. With which **groups** is a common dataset shared and in which **bases** is it integrated? You can view this information under **Details**.

![Details of a common dataset](images/Details-of-a-common-dataset.png)

![Common dataset details](images/Common-dataset-details.png)

## Rename a common data set

If you want to change the **name** of your common data set, simply click on **Rename**.

![Rename common dataset option](images/Rename-common-dataset-option.png)

![Rename common dataset](images/Rename-common-dataset.png)

Enter the new name and confirm with **Send**.

## Manage access authorizations

You can use the **Manage access** option to share your common data set with another group or withdraw access again. You can find out exactly how this works [here]({{< relref "help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/freigabe-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes-an-eine-andere-gruppe" >}}).

## Force synchronization with the common data set

As the creator of a common dataset, you can force the **synchronization** of dependent tables. You can find out the consequences and advantages of this [here]({{< relref "help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/synchronisation-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes" >}}).

## Delete a common dataset

If you want to delete a common dataset, you will find all the important information [here]({{< relref "help/startseite/gemeinsame-datensaetze/loeschen-eines-gemeinsamen-datensatzes" >}}).
