src/content/pages/functions/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Die beste Datenbank-Lösung für Ihr Team | Funktionen SeaTable'
description: 'Entdecken Sie die umfangreichen Funktionen von SeaTable: Von flexiblen Tabellen bis hin zu leistungsstarken Automatisierungen.'
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/functions'

sections:
    - name: hero-3
      weight: 1
      title: Order for all thoughts and ideas
      description: SeaTable gives you the certainty that everything is organized and documented. So that you can maintain an overview at all times and concentrate on implementing your thoughts and ideas.
      buttons:
          - label: Get started now
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: 'content-9'
      weight: 2
      title: Organize all information in one place
      subtitle: Individual data management
      description: SeaTable offers you all the functions you need to stay in control of your data at all times. Give them structure and work efficiently with them.
      items:
          - headline: 'Tables and bases'
            text: 'They ensure that your projects, tasks and ideas remain clearly organized. Bases for projects and tables for your data.'
            icon: toggle-off

          - headline: Column types
            text: SeaTable can handle all types of information. Do not limit yourself to text and numbers. A total of 25 different column types are available.
            icon: medal

          - headline: Views
            text: Everyone only gets to see what they are supposed to see. So that they only see what they want to and should be able to...
            icon: up-right-and-down-left-from-center

          - headline: Filters, sorting and grouping
            text: 'They ensure that your projects, tasks and ideas remain clearly organized. Bases for projects and tables for your data.'
            icon: leaf

          - headline: Color highlighting
            text: "SeaTable can handle all kinds of information. Don't limit yourself to text and numbers. A total of 25 different column types are available."
            icon: signature

          - headline: Authorizations
            text: 'Everyone only gets to see what they are supposed to see. So that they only see what they want and should be able to.'
            icon: shield-halved

    - name: 'banner-3'
      weight: 3
      title: 'No matter what you want your system to look like. You have control over it.'
      buttons:
          - link: 'pages/registration'
            label: 'Try it out now'

    - name: 'content-12'
      weight: 4
      title: 'Share your work with others'
      subtitle: 'Teamwork'
      description: 'Working in a team is usually more efficient. Share individual bases with your team colleagues in order to manage the work better.'
      items:
          - text: Teams and groups
          - text: Comments
          - text: Notifications
          - text: External links
          - text: Sharing views
      image: '/images/Focuspage-Funktionen-Teamwork.png'

    - name: content-1
      weight: 5
      title: The perfect display for everyone
      subtitle: Visualization
      description: Display your data in different ways so that you always have an overview. SeaTable offers everything you need.

      items:
          - headline: Gallery
            text: Display images and graphics clearly and vividly with any additional information.
          - headline: Calendar
            text: Keep track of appointments and deadlines. With the calendar you have everything under control.
          - headline: Kanban
            text: Work with the Kanban view and move your data using drag-and-drop.
      image: '/images/Screenshots-Funktionen.png'

    - name: 'content-13'
      weight: 6
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Automate your processes
      subtitle: Without programming knowledge
      description: SeaTable offers a wide range of automation options for recurring tasks.
      items:
          - headline: Javascript
            text: Automate work steps with your own scripts using JS and Python.
          - headline: Data processing
            text: SeaTable allows calculations across all rows of your tables.
          - headline: Notifications
            text: Define triggers for which you or your colleagues want to be notified.
          - headline: Automations
            text: Have certain processes executed automatically at a specific time or status.

    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 7
      title: 'Connect SeaTable with your world'
      subtitle: 'Integration'
      description: 'Connect SeaTable with all the apps you already use and use SeaTable as a hub to organize your life.'
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Learn more about integrations'
            link: 'https://seatable.io/integrationen/?lang=auto'
---

<!-- bei single pages kommt alles in den frontmatter ... -->

Commit message:

update english title of functions page

src/content/pages/functions/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'The best database solution for your team | SeaTable features'
description: 'Discover the extensive functions of SeaTable: from flexible tables to powerful automations.'
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/functions'

sections:
    - name: hero-3
      weight: 1
      title: Order for all thoughts and ideas
      description: SeaTable gives you the certainty that everything is organized and documented. So that you can maintain an overview at all times and concentrate on implementing your thoughts and ideas.
      buttons:
          - label: Get started now
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: 'content-9'
      weight: 2
      title: Organize all information in one place
      subtitle: Individual data management
      description: SeaTable offers you all the functions you need to stay in control of your data at all times. Give them structure and work efficiently with them.
      items:
          - headline: 'Tables and bases'
            text: 'They ensure that your projects, tasks and ideas remain clearly organized. Bases for projects and tables for your data.'
            icon: toggle-off

          - headline: Column types
            text: SeaTable can handle all types of information. Do not limit yourself to text and numbers. A total of 25 different column types are available.
            icon: medal

          - headline: Views
            text: Everyone only gets to see what they are supposed to see. So that they only see what they want to and should be able to...
            icon: up-right-and-down-left-from-center

          - headline: Filters, sorting and grouping
            text: 'They ensure that your projects, tasks and ideas remain clearly organized. Bases for projects and tables for your data.'
            icon: leaf

          - headline: Color highlighting
            text: "SeaTable can handle all kinds of information. Don't limit yourself to text and numbers. A total of 25 different column types are available."
            icon: signature

          - headline: Authorizations
            text: 'Everyone only gets to see what they are supposed to see. So that they only see what they want and should be able to.'
            icon: shield-halved

    - name: 'banner-3'
      weight: 3
      title: 'No matter what you want your system to look like. You have control over it.'
      buttons:
          - link: 'pages/registration'
            label: 'Try it out now'

    - name: 'content-12'
      weight: 4
      title: 'Share your work with others'
      subtitle: 'Teamwork'
      description: 'Working in a team is usually more efficient. Share individual bases with your team colleagues in order to manage the work better.'
      items:
          - text: Teams and groups
          - text: Comments
          - text: Notifications
          - text: External links
          - text: Sharing views
      image: '/images/Focuspage-Funktionen-Teamwork.png'

    - name: content-1
      weight: 5
      title: The perfect display for everyone
      subtitle: Visualization
      description: Display your data in different ways so that you always have an overview. SeaTable offers everything you need.

      items:
          - headline: Gallery
            text: Display images and graphics clearly and vividly with any additional information.
          - headline: Calendar
            text: Keep track of appointments and deadlines. With the calendar you have everything under control.
          - headline: Kanban
            text: Work with the Kanban view and move your data using drag-and-drop.
      image: '/images/Screenshots-Funktionen.png'

    - name: 'content-13'
      weight: 6
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Automate your processes
      subtitle: Without programming knowledge
      description: SeaTable offers a wide range of automation options for recurring tasks.
      items:
          - headline: Javascript
            text: Automate work steps with your own scripts using JS and Python.
          - headline: Data processing
            text: SeaTable allows calculations across all rows of your tables.
          - headline: Notifications
            text: Define triggers for which you or your colleagues want to be notified.
          - headline: Automations
            text: Have certain processes executed automatically at a specific time or status.

    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 7
      title: 'Connect SeaTable with your world'
      subtitle: 'Integration'
      description: 'Connect SeaTable with all the apps you already use and use SeaTable as a hub to organize your life.'
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Learn more about integrations'
            link: 'https://seatable.io/integrationen/?lang=auto'
---

<!-- bei single pages kommt alles in den frontmatter ... -->
