src/content/pages/press/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'SeaTable Press: News and media reports'
description: ''
date: '2025-04-03'
url: '/press'
seo:
    title: 'SeaTable Press: News, Media & Company Updates'
    description: 'Find the latest SeaTable press releases, media reports and download our official press and media kit with all assets.'

sections:
    - name: hero-6
      weight: 1
      h1: 'Press & News'
      description: 'On this page you will find our press and media kit as well as interesting media reports about SeaTable. Because not only we report about us, but also numerous media.<br></br>Would you also like to write about us? We are always happy to give you more information.'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Discover our press and media kit'
            link: 'https://cloud.seatable.io/apps/custom/press-and-media-kit'
            style: 'primary'
            id: de-homepage-registration-hero-1
      image: '/images/seatable-press-and-media-kit.png'

    - name: 'banner-3'
      weight: 2
      title: 'Do you have a specific press or interview request?'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Feel free to contact us at any time'
            link: 'pages/contact'

    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 3
      title: 'Our press and media kit'
      subtitle: 'Information and images'
      description: 'Discover the latest press releases, clear presentations and immediately usable image material. All of this is available for you to download in our press and media kit.'
      items:
          - headline: 'Presentations'
            text: 'All information straight to the point'
            image: /images/seatable-presentations.jpg
            image_alt:
          - headline: 'Image material'
            text: 'All screenshots, photos, and logos'
            image: /images/seatable-screenshots.png
            image_alt:
          - headline: 'Press releases'
            text: 'All the latest news about SeaTable'
            image: /images/seatable-press-release-6-0.jpg
            image_alt:
          
      buttons:
          - label: 'Browse through our press and media kit'
            link: 'https://cloud.seatable.io/apps/custom/press-and-media-kit'
            style: 'primary'

    - name: 'content-23'
      weight: 4
      title: 'Many talk about SeaTable'
      subtitle: 'Publications'
      text: 'Here you can see a selection of media that have already reported on SeaTable.'
      image: /images/Logo_PR.png
      image_alt:

    - name: 'content-24'
      weight: 5
      title: 'Press and media reports'
---

Commit message:

press, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/press/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'SeaTable Press: News and media reports'
description: ''
date: '2025-04-03'
url: '/press'
seo:
    title: 'SeaTable Press: News, Media & Company Updates'
    description: 'Find the latest SeaTable press releases, media reports and download our official press and media kit with all assets.'

sections:
    - name: hero-6
      weight: 1
      h1: 'Press & News'
      description: 'On this page you will find our press and media kit as well as interesting media reports about SeaTable. Because not only we report about us, but also numerous media.<br></br>Would you also like to write about us? We are always happy to give you more information.'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Discover our press and media kit'
            link: 'https://cloud.seatable.io/apps/custom/press-and-media-kit'
            style: 'primary'
            id: de-homepage-registration-hero-1
      image: '/images/seatable-press-and-media-kit.png'
      image_alt: 'SeaTable press and media kit overview with logos, screenshots and assets'

    - name: 'banner-3'
      weight: 2
      title: 'Do you have a specific press or interview request?'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Feel free to contact us at any time'
            link: 'pages/contact'

    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 3
      title: 'Our press and media kit'
      subtitle: 'Information and images'
      description: 'Discover the latest press releases, clear presentations and immediately usable image material. All of this is available for you to download in our press and media kit.'
      items:
          - headline: 'Presentations'
            text: 'All information straight to the point'
            image: /images/seatable-presentations.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable presentations in the press and media kit with concise product information'
          - headline: 'Image material'
            text: 'All screenshots, photos, and logos'
            image: /images/seatable-screenshots.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable screenshots and image assets for editorial use'
          - headline: 'Press releases'
            text: 'All the latest news about SeaTable'
            image: /images/seatable-press-release-6-0.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable press releases preview with latest news and updates'
          
      buttons:
          - label: 'Browse through our press and media kit'
            link: 'https://cloud.seatable.io/apps/custom/press-and-media-kit'
            style: 'primary'

    - name: 'content-23'
      weight: 4
      title: 'Many talk about SeaTable'
      subtitle: 'Publications'
      text: 'Here you can see a selection of media that have already reported on SeaTable.'
      image: /images/Logo_PR.png
      image_alt: 'Media outlets that have reported about SeaTable'

    - name: 'content-24'
      weight: 5
      title: 'Press and media reports'
---
