src/content/pages/industry-solutions/kundenmanagement/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'SeaTable: The most flexible solution for your customer management'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Customer management: Flexible CRM for companies | SeaTable'
    description: 'SeaTable for customer management: Flexible no-code CRM, GDPR-compliant, with automations, API and free templates.'
date: '2025-07-18'
url: '/customer-management'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'The most flexible solution for your customer management'
      text: Organize your customer management online exactly according to your ideas and needs. Whether lead tracking, sales pipeline, support tickets or contract management – with SeaTable you define how your data is organized.
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: e88ee7aedd00470e9310
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free and get started
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes: 
        - curved
        - bg-seatable-blue
      title: "SeaTable for your customer management"
      subtitle: The scalable no-code platform
      description: SeaTable is as flexible as a spreadsheet and as powerful as a database. This allows you to keep track of all customer interactions, automate processes and intelligently analyze your data.
      items:
        - text: Collaborative working in real time 
        - text: Individually customizable data structures and processes
        - text: No-code app builder for a user-friendly front end
        - text: Integrated notifications and automations
        - text: Easy integration with other tools
        - text: As a cloud solution or on-premises
        - text: 100% GDPR-compliant with servers in Germany
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-2.png

    - name: content-11
      weight: 3
      title: Flexible customer contact management
      subtitle: For greater customer satisfaction
      items:
      - text: With SeaTable, you can organize your customer data in the way that best suits your business. You can not store contact data only, but also notes, documents, past interactions and status updates in one central location. By linking to an e-mail account, messages can be sent directly and automatically from SeaTable.
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-verwaltung.jpg
     
    - name: content-11
      weight: 4
      title: Sales automation
      subtitle: Sales pipeline and quote tracking
      items:
      - text: Keep a constant overview of your sales processes and increase your closing rate. With SeaTable, you can visualize the progress of leads and quotes in a clear overview. In the Kanban view, you can immediately see which phase each lead is in and can react quickly to changes. Create automatic reminders for follow-ups. Define the phases of the sales process according to your needs, be it for lead generation, the quotation phase or contract conclusion.
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-vertriebsautomatisierung.jpg
      image_position: left

    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 7
      title: SeaTable is ready for use with just a few clicks 
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id:   

    - name: content-11
      weight: 9
      title: Successful customer relationship management
      subtitle: Automations for more time and transparency
      items:
      - text: "With SeaTable's built-in automations, you can not only set up simple notifications, but also create complex workflows that connect multiple departments or tools. For example, when a new lead comes in, the system automatically sends follow-up emails or notifies your team that the lead is ready for the next phase. This saves you time and ensures maximum transparency."
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-automatisierung.jpg
      image_position: left

    - name: content-11
      weight: 5
      title: Strengthen customer satisfaction and loyalty
      subtitle: Customer support management
      items:
      - text: 'With SeaTable, you can optimize your customer contact management and process inquiries quickly and efficiently. The ticket system helps you to keep track of every request and respond quickly. With SLA tracking, you can ensure that you always respond within the agreed times. Your support staff always have the relevant customer data to hand and can therefore offer solutions quickly and efficiently - and thus strengthen customer loyalty.'
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-ticketing.jpg
      
    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 10
      title: 'CRM system with powerful API'
      subtitle: 'Standard integrations'
      description: "The seamless integration of various tools and automated workflows into your customer management organization is crucial. Thanks to SeaTable's flexible API and seamless third-party integration, this is no longer an obstacle for you." 
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 6 
      title: 'SeaTable is the best choice for your CRM system'
      subtitle: 'Individually customizable customer management organization' 
      text: 'With SeaTable, you benefit from the freedom to customize the system without any code. Thanks to the user-friendly interface, you can quickly implement changes to your customer administration and add functions as required.'
      items:
        - headline: 'Collaborative working'
          text: 'Collaborate with colleagues in real time, comment on entries and share data securely.'
          icon: people-group
        - headline: Full control over your data
          text: Cloud or on-premise hosting - you decide where your data is stored.
          icon: terminal
        - headline: Table, Kanban, and more. 
          text: "Structure your data as you need it, e.g. as a classic table, calendar or Kanban board."
          icon: list
        - headline: 'Maximum flexibility'
          text: 'You decide how your data is structured - no rigid system that sets you limits.'
          icon: expand
        - headline: 'Fast integration without IT'
          text: 'Simply register and get started: SeaTable Cloud is ready to use immediately.'
          icon: code  
        - headline: 'Statistics and dashboards'
          text: In SeaTable, you always have an overview of all data and can create dashboards and reports directly. 
          icon: chart-line
    
    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 13
      title: Extensive functions in all price models
      subtitle: Cloud or self-hosted?
      description: ''
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Perfect for companies that want to get started quickly and without an extensive IT infrastructure - flexible and scalable.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: For companies that want to retain full control over their data, SeaTable Server offers an on-premises option.
            image: /images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: For companies that need the simplicity of the cloud and the flexibility of a self-hosted system.  
            image: /images/asana-dedicated.jpg

    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 8
      title: Test our free templates
      subtitle: Customer management templates for every use case
      description: 'SeaTable offers numerous free templates to help you get started. Import templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.'
      items:
          - text: "CRM: Customer management"
            image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-crm.jpg
            image_alt: ""
          - text: Write quote
            image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-quote.jpg
            image_alt: ""
          - text: Customer onboarding
            image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-kunden-onboarding.jpg
            image_alt: ""
      buttons:
        - label: Discover all templates
          link: "templates"

    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 12
      title: SeaTable is the GDPR-compliant customer management software
      subtitle: Strategic customer management online
      text: "Data protection must be a priority, especially when handling customer data. SeaTable is hosted exclusively on servers in Germany and is 100% GDPR-compliant. We therefore combine the highest standards for the protection of sensitive data and compliance with data protection regulations with transparent and flexible work processes."
      items:
      - icon: terminal
        headline: On-premises solutions for full data control
        text: "If you want to operate a self-hosted CRM system, SeaTable Server offers the same range of functions as the cloud version - and you retain complete control over your data."
      - icon: user-plus
        headline: User-defined security settings
        text: "Set up individual access and editing rights and restrict access to sensitive data."
      - icon: fingerprint
        headline: Authentication and single sign-on
        text: "SeaTable supports all common authentication techniques and enables two-factor authentication and SSO in all subscription models."

    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 14
      title: Customer management made easy - with SeaTable
      buttons:
           - label: Register now and get started right away
             link: pages/registration
             id: 

    - name: faq
      weight: 15
      title: FAQ - Customer management with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'Why is efficient customer management important?'
            a: 'Good customer management is the key to long-term customer loyalty. However, many companies struggle with confusing Excel lists, complicated CRM software or scattered customer data. Traditional CRM systems restrict you with rigid structures that make it difficult to design your processes efficiently. This leads to unnecessarily tedious customer management tasks and frustration among employees and impairs communication with your customers - customer satisfaction suffers. In addition, high license costs and the need to call in external IT resources often result in unnecessary expenditure.'
          - q: 'Who is SeaTable suitable for as customer management software?'
            a: 'SeaTable is suitable for companies of all sizes - from start-ups to large corporations. The tool adapts to your requirements and thus offers the right solution for every industry and every team to organize customer management tasks and improve customer management organization. With its user-friendly interface and versatile functions, SeaTable helps you to organize your processes efficiently and make your day-to-day work noticeably easier.'
          - q: 'What are the disadvantages of conventional CRM systems?'
            a: "If you use traditional CRM software to map your specific business processes, you will quickly encounter a number of challenges. Such systems are often only a limited fit for your company's customer management organization and cannot be flexibly adapted. Implementation is often complex, takes a long time and requires external consultants. License and usage fees quickly exceed budgets when you slide into the next payment level as demand increases. Many CRM tools are also difficult to connect with other tools that are already in use in the company."
          - q: 'Does SeaTable offer a free version?'
            a: 'For small teams of up to 25 people, SeaTable offers a cloud-based free version that already has all the features and necessary functions and views you need for strategic customer management. With automations, Universal App Builder, numerous free templates and integrated forms, SeaTable Free offers a package that no CRM software offers for free.'
          - q: 'Do I also receive free support from SeaTable?'
            a: 'Yes, our support team is available to help you with any questions or difficulties. You can either contact the SeaTable Community in our forum or write an e-mail directly.'        
---

Commit message:

Customer Management, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/industry-solutions/kundenmanagement/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'SeaTable: The most flexible solution for your customer management'
description: ''
seo:
    title: 'Customer management: Flexible CRM for companies | SeaTable'
    description: 'SeaTable for customer management: Flexible no-code CRM, GDPR-compliant, with automations, API and free templates.'
date: '2025-07-18'
url: '/customer-management'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: 'The most flexible solution for your customer management'
      text: Organize your customer management online exactly according to your ideas and needs. Whether lead tracking, sales pipeline, support tickets or contract management – with SeaTable you define how your data is organized.
      classes:
          - bg-white
      template: e88ee7aedd00470e9310
      buttons:
          - label: Register now for free and get started
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: content-12
      weight: 2
      classes: 
        - curved
        - bg-seatable-blue
      title: "SeaTable for your customer management"
      subtitle: The scalable no-code platform
      description: SeaTable is as flexible as a spreadsheet and as powerful as a database. This allows you to keep track of all customer interactions, automate processes and intelligently analyze your data.
      items:
        - text: Collaborative working in real time 
        - text: Individually customizable data structures and processes
        - text: No-code app builder for a user-friendly front end
        - text: Integrated notifications and automations
        - text: Easy integration with other tools
        - text: As a cloud solution or on-premises
        - text: 100% GDPR-compliant with servers in Germany
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-2.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable interface for flexible customer management with contacts and activities'

    - name: content-11
      weight: 3
      title: Flexible customer contact management
      subtitle: For greater customer satisfaction
      items:
      - text: With SeaTable, you can organize your customer data in the way that best suits your business. You can not store contact data only, but also notes, documents, past interactions and status updates in one central location. By linking to an e-mail account, messages can be sent directly and automatically from SeaTable.
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-verwaltung.jpg
      image_alt: 'SeaTable view for managing customer data, notes and interactions'
     
    - name: content-11
      weight: 4
      title: Sales automation
      subtitle: Sales pipeline and quote tracking
      items:
      - text: Keep a constant overview of your sales processes and increase your closing rate. With SeaTable, you can visualize the progress of leads and quotes in a clear overview. In the Kanban view, you can immediately see which phase each lead is in and can react quickly to changes. Create automatic reminders for follow-ups. Define the phases of the sales process according to your needs, be it for lead generation, the quotation phase or contract conclusion.
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-vertriebsautomatisierung.jpg
      image_alt: 'SeaTable sales pipeline visualizing leads and deals in a Kanban board'
      image_position: left

    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 7
      title: SeaTable is ready for use with just a few clicks 
      buttons:
           - label: Register now for free and get started
             link: pages/registration
             id:   

    - name: content-11
      weight: 9
      title: Successful customer relationship management
      subtitle: Automations for more time and transparency
      items:
      - text: "With SeaTable's built-in automations, you can not only set up simple notifications, but also create complex workflows that connect multiple departments or tools. For example, when a new lead comes in, the system automatically sends follow-up emails or notifies your team that the lead is ready for the next phase. This saves you time and ensures maximum transparency."
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-automatisierung.jpg
      image_alt: 'SeaTable automations for CRM workflows with notifications and tasks'
      image_position: left

    - name: content-11
      weight: 5
      title: Strengthen customer satisfaction and loyalty
      subtitle: Customer support management
      items:
      - text: 'With SeaTable, you can optimize your customer contact management and process inquiries quickly and efficiently. The ticket system helps you to keep track of every request and respond quickly. With SLA tracking, you can ensure that you always respond within the agreed times. Your support staff always have the relevant customer data to hand and can therefore offer solutions quickly and efficiently - and thus strengthen customer loyalty.'
      image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-ticketing.jpg
      image_alt: 'SeaTable ticketing system for handling support requests and SLAs'
      
    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 10
      title: 'CRM system with powerful API'
      subtitle: 'Standard integrations'
      description: "The seamless integration of various tools and automated workflows into your customer management organization is crucial. Thanks to SeaTable's flexible API and seamless third-party integration, this is no longer an obstacle for you." 
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 6 
      title: 'SeaTable is the best choice for your CRM system'
      subtitle: 'Individually customizable customer management organization' 
      text: 'With SeaTable, you benefit from the freedom to customize the system without any code. Thanks to the user-friendly interface, you can quickly implement changes to your customer administration and add functions as required.'
      items:
        - headline: 'Collaborative working'
          text: 'Collaborate with colleagues in real time, comment on entries and share data securely.'
          icon: people-group
        - headline: Full control over your data
          text: Cloud or on-premise hosting - you decide where your data is stored.
          icon: terminal
        - headline: Table, Kanban, and more. 
          text: "Structure your data as you need it, e.g. as a classic table, calendar or Kanban board."
          icon: list
        - headline: 'Maximum flexibility'
          text: 'You decide how your data is structured - no rigid system that sets you limits.'
          icon: expand
        - headline: 'Fast integration without IT'
          text: 'Simply register and get started: SeaTable Cloud is ready to use immediately.'
          icon: code  
        - headline: 'Statistics and dashboards'
          text: In SeaTable, you always have an overview of all data and can create dashboards and reports directly. 
          icon: chart-line
    
    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 13
      title: Extensive functions in all price models
      subtitle: Cloud or self-hosted?
      description: ''
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Perfect for companies that want to get started quickly and without an extensive IT infrastructure - flexible and scalable.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Cloud project plan template for customer-facing projects'
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: For companies that want to retain full control over their data, SeaTable Server offers an on-premises option.
            image: /images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Server action plan template for managing customer projects'
          - headline: SeaTable Dedicated
            text: For companies that need the simplicity of the cloud and the flexibility of a self-hosted system.  
            image: /images/asana-dedicated.jpg
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Dedicated environment for scalable customer management in the company'

    - name: 'content-8'
      weight: 8
      title: Test our free templates
      subtitle: Customer management templates for every use case
      description: 'SeaTable offers numerous free templates to help you get started. Import templates into your SeaTable account with just one click.'
      items:
          - text: "CRM: Customer management"
            image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-crm.jpg
            image_alt: "SeaTable CRM template for customer management with contacts and pipeline"
          - text: Write quote
            image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-quote.jpg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for creating and tracking quotes"
          - text: Customer onboarding
            image: /images/landing-page-kundenmanagement-kunden-onboarding.jpg
            image_alt: "SeaTable template for structured customer onboarding with task list"
      buttons:
        - label: Discover all templates
          link: "templates"

    - name: "content-4"
      weight: 12
      title: SeaTable is the GDPR-compliant customer management software
      subtitle: Strategic customer management online
      text: "Data protection must be a priority, especially when handling customer data. SeaTable is hosted exclusively on servers in Germany and is 100% GDPR-compliant. We therefore combine the highest standards for the protection of sensitive data and compliance with data protection regulations with transparent and flexible work processes."
      items:
      - icon: terminal
        headline: On-premises solutions for full data control
        text: "If you want to operate a self-hosted CRM system, SeaTable Server offers the same range of functions as the cloud version - and you retain complete control over your data."
      - icon: user-plus
        headline: User-defined security settings
        text: "Set up individual access and editing rights and restrict access to sensitive data."
      - icon: fingerprint
        headline: Authentication and single sign-on
        text: "SeaTable supports all common authentication techniques and enables two-factor authentication and SSO in all subscription models."

    - name: "banner-2"
      weight: 14
      title: Customer management made easy - with SeaTable
      buttons:
           - label: Register now and get started right away
             link: pages/registration
             id: 

    - name: faq
      weight: 15
      title: FAQ - Customer management with SeaTable
      items:
          - q: 'Why is efficient customer management important?'
            a: 'Good customer management is the key to long-term customer loyalty. However, many companies struggle with confusing Excel lists, complicated CRM software or scattered customer data. Traditional CRM systems restrict you with rigid structures that make it difficult to design your processes efficiently. This leads to unnecessarily tedious customer management tasks and frustration among employees and impairs communication with your customers - customer satisfaction suffers. In addition, high license costs and the need to call in external IT resources often result in unnecessary expenditure.'
          - q: 'Who is SeaTable suitable for as customer management software?'
            a: 'SeaTable is suitable for companies of all sizes - from start-ups to large corporations. The tool adapts to your requirements and thus offers the right solution for every industry and every team to organize customer management tasks and improve customer management organization. With its user-friendly interface and versatile functions, SeaTable helps you to organize your processes efficiently and make your day-to-day work noticeably easier.'
          - q: 'What are the disadvantages of conventional CRM systems?'
            a: "If you use traditional CRM software to map your specific business processes, you will quickly encounter a number of challenges. Such systems are often only a limited fit for your company's customer management organization and cannot be flexibly adapted. Implementation is often complex, takes a long time and requires external consultants. License and usage fees quickly exceed budgets when you slide into the next payment level as demand increases. Many CRM tools are also difficult to connect with other tools that are already in use in the company."
          - q: 'Does SeaTable offer a free version?'
            a: 'For small teams of up to 25 people, SeaTable offers a cloud-based free version that already has all the features and necessary functions and views you need for strategic customer management. With automations, Universal App Builder, numerous free templates and integrated forms, SeaTable Free offers a package that no CRM software offers for free.'
          - q: 'Do I also receive free support from SeaTable?'
            a: 'Yes, our support team is available to help you with any questions or difficulties. You can either contact the SeaTable Community in our forum or write an e-mail directly.'        
---
