src/content/templates/human-resources/employee-directory/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Employee directory'
description: ''
date: '2025-04-18'
url: '/template/employee-directory'
category: 'human-resources'
functions:
seo:
    title: ''
    description: ''
template: 'e3d0d9a9139c46c58bf0'
---

Especially in companies without a central employee database, it is important to create an employee directory - not only for your overview, but also to always have all relevant contact details to hand. With a detailed directory, not only do you know which employees work where, but also important authorities such as the managing director. Your employees will also get to know each other better. This has a positive effect on the company culture!

Keep track of all employees in your company with our practical template. By recording departments, positions, personal data and much more, you know at a glance who is responsible for reporting and where. A structured employee directory can replace a company organization chart and enables your employees to have clarity about their respective responsibilities and contact points.

Read ourblog articleto find out why an employee database is a good idea.

​asdfasfd

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you still have questions? Then take a look at our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).

Commit message:

Template Page Mitarbeiterverzeichnis Optimierung Frontmatter

src/content/templates/human-resources/employee-directory/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Employee directory'
description: 'Employee Directory Template: Overview of All Staff'
date: '2025-04-18'
url: '/template/employee-directory'
category: 'human-resources'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Employee Directory Template: Overview of All Staff'
    description: 'Use our employee directory template for a quick overview of positions, departments, and contact details in your company.'
template: 'e3d0d9a9139c46c58bf0'
---

Especially in companies without a central employee database, it is important to create an employee directory - not only for your overview, but also to always have all relevant contact details to hand. With a detailed directory, not only do you know which employees work where, but also important authorities such as the managing director. Your employees will also get to know each other better. This has a positive effect on the company culture!

Keep track of all employees in your company with our practical template. By recording departments, positions, personal data and much more, you know at a glance who is responsible for reporting and where. A structured employee directory can replace a company organization chart and enables your employees to have clarity about their respective responsibilities and contact points.

Read ourblog articleto find out why an employee database is a good idea.

​asdfasfd

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you still have questions? Then take a look at our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}}).
