src/content/help/haeufig-gestellte-fragen/wissen-und-tipps/warum-gibt-es-zwei-freigabemoeglichkeiten-in-einer-base/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Why are there two sharing options in one Base?'
date: 2023-03-14
lastmod: '2023-03-14'
categories:
    - 'haeufig-gestellte-fragen'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/warum-gibt-es-zwei-freigabemoeglichkeiten-in-einer-base'
---

Two different sharing options are available in your bases, allowing you to share either **individual views** or your **entire base**.

![Sharing icons in a base](images/share-icons-new-1.png)

Both sharing is done via the **Share** dialog - a window you reach via the **Share icons** {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-share" >}} in the View or Base options.

![Releasing a Base to a User](images/share-base-to-user.png)

## Release of a base

![Open share dialog within Base](images/share-a-base.png)

If you want to share one of your bases, you have a choice of options depending on the group of people you want to share it with:

- [Release for user]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/anlegen-einer-benutzerfreigabe" >}})
- [Release for group]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/eine-base-an-eine-gruppe-freigeben" >}})
- [Release via invitation link]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/einladungs-link-erklaert" >}})
- [Share via external link]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/externer-link-erklaert" >}})

### Custom share

If you don't want to share a whole base, but only parts of it, that is of course also possible. [Custom sharing]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen" >}}) allows you to share multiple tables and views at once and send them bundled to team members or whole groups.

## Sharing a view

If you only want to share a single view, sharing can be done to three groups of people:

- [Release to a team member]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/freigabe-einer-ansicht-an-ein-teammitglied" >}})
- [Release to a group]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/freigabe-einer-ansicht-an-eine-gruppe" >}})
- [Share via external link]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/externen-link-fuer-eine-ansicht-erstellen" >}})

For more information, see also the article [Base and view shares]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/base-und-ansichtsfreigaben-im-ueberblick" >}}) at a glance.

Commit message:

Bugfixes release/share & common datasets

src/content/help/haeufig-gestellte-fragen/wissen-und-tipps/warum-gibt-es-zwei-freigabemoeglichkeiten-in-einer-base/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Why are there two sharing options in one Base?'
date: 2023-03-14
lastmod: '2023-03-14'
categories:
    - 'haeufig-gestellte-fragen'
author: 'nsc2'
url: '/help/warum-gibt-es-zwei-freigabemoeglichkeiten-in-einer-base'
---

Two different sharing options are available in your bases, allowing you to share either **individual views** or your **entire base**.

![Sharing icons in a base](images/share-icons-new-1.png)

Both sharing is done via the **Share** dialog - a window you reach via the **Share icons** {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-share" >}} in the View or Base options.

![Share a base with a user](images/share-base-to-user.png)

## Share a base

![Open share dialog within Base](images/share-a-base.png)

If you want to share one of your bases, you have a choice of options depending on the group of people you want to share it with:

- [Share a base with a user]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/anlegen-einer-benutzerfreigabe" >}})
- [Share a base with a group]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/eine-base-an-eine-gruppe-freigeben" >}})
- [Share via invitation link]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/einladungs-link-erklaert" >}})
- [Share via external link]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/externer-link-erklaert" >}})

### Custom share

If you don't want to share a whole base, but only parts of it, that is of course also possible. [Custom sharing]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/benutzerdefinierte-freigabe-erstellen" >}}) allows you to share multiple tables and views at once and send them bundled to team members or whole groups.

## Sharing a view

If you only want to share a single view, sharing can be done to three groups of people:

- [Share with a team member]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/freigabe-einer-ansicht-an-ein-teammitglied" >}})
- [Share with a group]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/freigabe-einer-ansicht-an-eine-gruppe" >}})
- [Share via external link]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/externen-link-fuer-eine-ansicht-erstellen" >}})

For more information, see also the article [Base and view shares]({{< relref "help/startseite/freigaben/base-und-ansichtsfreigaben-im-ueberblick" >}}) at a glance.
