src/content/templates/product-design/product-library/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Product Library'
description: ''
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/product-library'
category: 'product-design'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Product Library Template: Manage Products & Suppliers'
    description: 'Centralize and organize product data and suppliers with this product library template.'
template: 'faf9c0823ac748b59ef5'
weight: 1
---

This template has been developed for any company that has a product management department and needs reliable software to organise its products. In this directory you get all the information about your product lines, specific product data and your suppliers. Additionally, you can add sales in your shop if needed.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you have any questions? our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})will help you.

Commit message:

Description template cat. product design

src/content/templates/product-design/product-library/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Product Library'
description: 'Keep product lines, specs, suppliers and sales in one place and structure your product portfolio clearly.'
date: '2024-08-24'
url: '/template/product-library'
category: 'product-design'
functions:
seo:
    title: 'Product Library Template: Manage Products & Suppliers'
    description: 'Centralize and organize product data and suppliers with this product library template.'
template: 'faf9c0823ac748b59ef5'
weight: 1
---

This template has been developed for any company that has a product management department and needs reliable software to organise its products. In this directory you get all the information about your product lines, specific product data and your suppliers. Additionally, you can add sales in your shop if needed.

​

## Interactive template

Scroll through our interactively embedded template or read the description by clicking on the {{< seatable-icon icon="dtable-icon-description" >}} after the template name. This will give you a better feel for the functions. Do you have any questions? our [help section]({{< relref "help" >}})will help you.
