src/content/pages/excel-alternative/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Excel alternative for your company | Smart data management'
description: ''
seo:
    title: "Excel alternative for your company | Smart data management"
    description: "Forget rigid tables. SeaTable offers collaborative data management. Switch to the intelligent Excel alternative"
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/excel-alternative'
aliases:
  - '/en/excel-alternative/'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: SeaTable – the powerful Excel alternative
      text: As simple as Excel, with the power of a no-code database and an intuitive no-code app builder! SeaTable the Excel alternative!
      classes:
          - bg-gray-200
      template: 1acd19d97c8f4ed3ad38
      buttons:
          - label: Get started now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know the functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 2
      title: SeaTable is the perfect Excel alternative
      subtitle: Advantages of SeaTable
      text: 'Whether in software development, the digitization of administration, project management, marketing or human resources – in all departments, the demands on complex data management are constantly increasing. The data sources are diverse, the data volumes and the collaboration on this data often exceed the possibilities of conventional spreadsheets, as you know them from an Excel program or spreadsheet. Expand your possibilities and **increase your productivity** with our intuitive, digital no-code platform.'
      items:
          - icon: layer-group
            headline: Flexibility
            text: 'Excel files are often difficult to edit together, especially when multiple people want to work on them at the same time. SeaTable enables your team to collaborate in real time.'

          - icon: sack-dollar
            headline: Costs
            text: 'The license costs for Microsoft Office can be a significant burden for small and medium-sized companies. SeaTable already offers a comprehensive free Excel alternative for modern, flexible and efficient data management with the free version.'

          - icon: edit
            headline: Collaboration
            text: 'Excel files are often difficult to edit together, especially when multiple people want to work on them at the same time. SeaTable enables your team to collaborate in real time.'

    - name: 'banner-1'
      weight: 3
      title: Start today with SeaTable Free as a free Excel alternative
      text: Experience the advantages of modern, flexible and efficient data management
      buttons:
          - label: Test for free now
            link: pages/registration
            style: primary

    - name: content-25
      weight: 4
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Create tailor-made databases
      subtitle: Simplify your data management
      text: SeaTable enables you to create tailor-made databases that go far beyond the possibilities of conventional spreadsheet solutions.<br><br>Design your data models as flexibly as your requirements. From simple tables to complex database structures - with SeaTable everything is possible
      items:
          - headline: Organize data efficiently
            text: Take advantage of the over 20 different column types, including checkboxes, buttons, files and images.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative_Daten-effizient-organisieren.png
          - headline: Diverse views
            text: Create different, individual views of your data to gain insights from different perspectives and switch effortlessly between calendar, Kanban and gallery views.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative_Ansichten.png
          - headline: Advanced data processing
            text: Perform complex data processing and create appealing diagrams and pivot tables for your analyses.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative_Datenverarbeitung.png
          - headline: Free templates
            text: Use one of our numerous free templates from a wide range of specialist areas to get started immediately.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative-Templates.png
          - headline: Filter and sort function
            text: Thanks to powerful filter and sort functions and automatic calculations, you can keep track of everything at all times.
            image: /images/Filterfunktionen.png

    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 5
      title: 'Automate your workflows'
      subtitle: 'Integration'
      description: 'Use powerful automation functions to accelerate processes and minimize sources of error. Integrate other tools or automate recurring tasks with custom scripts in JavaScript and Python.<br><br>With the Enterprise version, you can even define custom rules and automations that make your everyday life much easier.'
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Learn more about integrations'
            link: 'pages/integrations'

    - name: 'banner-2'
      weight: 6
      title: See for yourself and test SeaTable for free.
      buttons:
          - label: 'Register now and get started'
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: 'content-2'
      weight: 7
      title: Collaborate in real time
      subtitle: Finally real-time collaboration
      description: Work together with your team on your projects in real time. SeaTable enables seamless real-time collaboration, no matter where your team members are.<br><br>SeaTable offers comprehensive collaboration functions that enable simultaneous editing and real-time communication. Links and cross-table relationships create a flexible and dynamic data environment.
      items:
          - headline: Easy real-time collaboration
            text: With SeaTable, multiple users can work on a table at the same time without conflicts or version problems.
            icon: list-check
          - headline: Comments and notifications
            text: Discuss data directly in SeaTable and receive instant notifications of changes.
            icon: comment
          - headline: Individual permissions
            text: 'Individual permissions: Define who can see or edit specific tables, columns and rows to ensure maximum control and security over your data.'
            icon: lock-open

    - name: 'content-16'
      weight: 8
      title: Excel alternative with almost unlimited flexibility
      subtitle: Why SeaTable is your ideal Excel alternative
      description: SeaTable offers a flexibility that goes far beyond what you are used to from Excel. Different data types and advanced functions make it the ideal choice for complex data projects. **Organize and analyze your data** with a whole new level of flexibility that you won't find in an Excel program.
      items:
          - headline: Intuitive operation
            text: 'Thanks to the intuitive user interface, you can get started without extensive training. Create your first tables and databases easily with just a few clicks. Thanks to the clear menu structure, even beginners can find their way around quickly. <br><br>Use our numerous templates to get started quickly and easily, or let our online course guide you step by step through your first data project.'
          - headline: Powerful automation
            text: Save time and use the extensive automation functions of SeaTable to **optimize your workflows** and automate recurring tasks.<br><br>With SeaTable, you can also set up automatic notifications when deadlines are exceeded or carry out complex calculations.
          - headline: Real-time collaboration
            text: Benefit from the comprehensive collaboration options in SeaTable. Work together with your team in real time, keep everyone up to date and share your tables and databases with colleagues to work on the same data at the same time.
          - headline: Scalability
            text: 'SeaTable grows with your company. Adapt your databases and applications flexibly to the changing requirements of your company - SeaTable offers you the necessary flexibility.'

    - name: 'content-23'
      weight: 9
      title: Mobile access
      subtitle: Be flexible
      text: Edit your data from anywhere. SeaTable offers mobile access, so you can access your projects on the go.
      image: /images/SeaTable_de.png

    - name: 'content-13'
      weight: 10
      class:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Alternative to Excel with an intuitive user interface
      subtitle: Create and organize tables
      description: SeaTable offers an intuitive user interface that has been specially designed for ease of use.
      items:
          - headline: Easy to use
            text: SeaTable's familiar table view and drag-and-drop function makes it easy to get started, even for Excel users.
          - headline: Diverse views
            text: Use individual views and the Kanban, Timeline or Gallery plugin to structure your data.
          - headline: Notifications
            text: Define triggers for when you or your colleagues are notified or task statuses are updated.
          - headline: Color markings
            text: Define rules according to which individual or multiple columns are highlighted in color to ensure a better overview.

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 11
      title: Get started with our free templates
      subtitle: What is SeaTable?
      text: Creating tables in Excel was yesterday - SeaTable combines free spreadsheet, database and app builder in one platform and offers you comprehensive options for your data management. Use the numerous templates that SeaTable offers to start your projects quickly and efficiently. Based on these templates, you can easily create individual dashboards to visualize your data for further analyses or reports.
      buttons:
          - label: Try it out now
            link: pages/registration
            style: primary
      gridheadline: 'The new tool for'
      items:
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Task management
            text: 'Our template for your task planning replaces the traditional to-do list from Excel and helps you to efficiently manage your daily tasks and increase your productivity. SeaTable offers a user-friendly interface that you can easily adapt to your specific requirements. Decide whether you want to use our practical to-do list template as a table, Kanban or timeline.'
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Project management
            text: 'Use our templates to organize projects efficiently. With SeaTable you can replace complex project management templates from Excel and create individual project plans that are perfectly tailored to your requirements.'
          - icon: ghost
            headline: 'Personnel and vacation planning'
            text: 'Manage your personnel resources more efficiently with SeaTable than with traditional personnel planning in Excel. Our templates enable dynamic management of working hours and absences and offer you a more flexible solution for vacation planning than Excel.'
          - icon:
            headline: Scheduling
            text: 'With SeaTable you can replace the Excel calendar with a more flexible solution that helps you to reliably manage appointments and deadlines and keep track of all important deadlines.'
          - icon:
            headline: Accounting
            text: 'Our templates from the accounting area offer you an effective alternative to the accounting template in Excel and enable easy management of your financial data, so that you can save time and optimize your accounting processes.'
          - icon:
            headline: Financial planning
            text: 'Replace the Excel financial plan with our powerful templates from this area, which will help you to precisely plan and manage your finances and always keep an eye on them via a visualization in the dashboard. These financial planners are ideal for optimizing your financial processes and offer more flexibility than traditional Excel financial planner templates.'

    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 12
      title: A no-code solution that you can trust in the long term
      subtitle: Cloud or own server
      description: 'With SeaTable you have the choice between two powerful deployment options for your [workflow management]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/individual" >}}).'
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Take advantage of the benefits of SeaTable Cloud and benefit from the flexibility and security of a modern cloud infrastructure. SeaTable Cloud is hosted in certified German data centers of a Swiss provider.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: With SeaTable Server you decide where your data is stored. You have full data sovereignty. With the on-premises version, SeaTable is fully integrated into your existing IT infrastructure.
            image: '/images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg'

    - name: 'banner-2'
      weight: 13
      title: Register for SeaTable for free to take your processes to the next level
      buttons:
          - label: 'Register now and get started'
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: faq
      weight: 14
      title: FAQ – SeaTable as Excel alternative
      items:
          - q: 'Can I use SeaTable free of charge?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable offers free use with extensive basic functions. You can create **tables for free, use templates** and benefit from the intuitive user interface. For advanced features and larger teams, there are paid subscriptions that offer additional value'
          - q: 'Can I migrate my data from Excel or Google Spreadsheet to SeaTable?'
            a: 'Yes, you can migrate your data to SeaTable **without any problems**. SeaTable supports the import of .xlsx and .csv files so that you can seamlessly transfer your existing data and can therefore serve as a complete Excel replacement and free Excel alternative.'
          - q: 'Why do I need an Excel alternative?'
            a: "Whether in software development, the digitalization of administration, project management, marketing or human resources - the requirements for complex data management **are constantly increasing in** all specialist areas. The data sources are diverse, the data volumes and the collaboration on this data often exceed the possibilities of conventional free spreadsheets, as you know them from an Excel software or [Google Spreadsheet]({{< relref \"posts/20250318-google-spreadsheet-alternative\" >}}). Expand your possibilities and **increase your productivity with our intuitive, digital no-code platform**.<br><br>SeaTable offers you more than just a spreadsheet. As a comprehensive no-code solution, it enables you to create complex data models, automate workflows and collaborate with your team in real time. Simplify your workflows and save valuable time with our alternative to Excel. Get started today with our free version as a free Excel alternative and experience the benefits of modern, flexible and efficient data management."
          - q: Is SeaTable better for project management than Excel?
            a: Yes, definitely. Don't use Excel for your next project plan - use SeaTable instead. This is because Excel project management templates quickly reach their limits with complex projects. With SeaTable, you can create a project plan that goes far beyond the functions of a conventional Excel program. Instead of making do with rigid tables, SeaTable offers you an intuitive user interface to efficiently manage tasks, schedules and resources.
          - q: Can I use SeaTable as an Excel alternative in the HR department?
            a: "Personnel planning with the conventional Excel program is often tedious. Especially when it comes to vacation planning or shift planning, companies quickly reach the limits of the classic Excel program. SeaTable offers an efficient and free Excel alternative for modern personnel planning:<br>

            - Easily create a front end for your personnel management with the universal app
  
            - Create clear staff schedules and vacation plans that update in real time
  
            - Define who has access to sensitive data via the authorization management"
          - q: Can I also use SeaTable as a data analysis tool?
            a: Yes, here too SeaTable is a strong alternative to Excel. Because when it comes to data analysis, Excel as a program quickly reaches its limits. SeaTable offers you a free Excel alternative to better structure, analyse and visualize your data - all in a user-friendly environment. Use SeaTable to filter, group and transform data into pivot tables with just a few clicks. Experience how easy and fast data analysis can be - with the basic features already available as a free alternative to Excel.
---

Commit message:

Excel Alternative, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/excel-alternative/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Excel alternative for your company | Smart data management'
description: ''
seo:
    title: "Excel alternative for your company | Smart data management"
    description: "Forget rigid tables. SeaTable offers collaborative data management. Switch to the intelligent Excel alternative"
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/excel-alternative'
aliases:
  - '/en/excel-alternative/'

sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: SeaTable – the powerful Excel alternative
      text: As simple as Excel, with the power of a no-code database and an intuitive no-code app builder! SeaTable the Excel alternative!
      classes:
          - bg-gray-200
      template: 1acd19d97c8f4ed3ad38
      buttons:
          - label: Get started now
            link: 'pages/registration'
            style: primary
          - label: Get to know the functions
            link: pages/functions

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 2
      title: SeaTable is the perfect Excel alternative
      subtitle: Advantages of SeaTable
      text: 'Whether in software development, the digitization of administration, project management, marketing or human resources – in all departments, the demands on complex data management are constantly increasing. The data sources are diverse, the data volumes and the collaboration on this data often exceed the possibilities of conventional spreadsheets, as you know them from an Excel program or spreadsheet. Expand your possibilities and **increase your productivity** with our intuitive, digital no-code platform.'
      items:
          - icon: layer-group
            headline: Flexibility
            text: 'Excel files are often difficult to edit together, especially when multiple people want to work on them at the same time. SeaTable enables your team to collaborate in real time.'

          - icon: sack-dollar
            headline: Costs
            text: 'The license costs for Microsoft Office can be a significant burden for small and medium-sized companies. SeaTable already offers a comprehensive free Excel alternative for modern, flexible and efficient data management with the free version.'

          - icon: edit
            headline: Collaboration
            text: 'Excel files are often difficult to edit together, especially when multiple people want to work on them at the same time. SeaTable enables your team to collaborate in real time.'

    - name: 'banner-1'
      weight: 3
      title: Start today with SeaTable Free as a free Excel alternative
      text: Experience the advantages of modern, flexible and efficient data management
      buttons:
          - label: Test for free now
            link: pages/registration
            style: primary

    - name: content-25
      weight: 4
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Create tailor-made databases
      subtitle: Simplify your data management
      text: SeaTable enables you to create tailor-made databases that go far beyond the possibilities of conventional spreadsheet solutions.<br><br>Design your data models as flexibly as your requirements. From simple tables to complex database structures - with SeaTable everything is possible
      items:
          - headline: Organize data efficiently
            text: Take advantage of the over 20 different column types, including checkboxes, buttons, files and images.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative_Daten-effizient-organisieren.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable table view with various column types for efficient data organization'
          - headline: Diverse views
            text: Create different, individual views of your data to gain insights from different perspectives and switch effortlessly between calendar, Kanban and gallery views.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative_Ansichten.png
            image_alt: 'Different SeaTable views such as table, calendar, Kanban and gallery at a glance'
          - headline: Advanced data processing
            text: Perform complex data processing and create appealing diagrams and pivot tables for your analyses.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative_Datenverarbeitung.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable interface with charts and pivot tables for advanced data processing'
          - headline: Free templates
            text: Use one of our numerous free templates from a wide range of specialist areas to get started immediately.
            image: /images/Excel-Alternative-Templates.png
            image_alt: 'Selection of SeaTable templates as an Excel alternative for different departments'
          - headline: Filter and sort function
            text: Thanks to powerful filter and sort functions and automatic calculations, you can keep track of everything at all times.
            image: /images/Filterfunktionen.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable table with filter and sort functions for focused data analysis'

    - name: 'content-10'
      weight: 5
      title: 'Automate your workflows'
      subtitle: 'Integration'
      description: 'Use powerful automation functions to accelerate processes and minimize sources of error. Integrate other tools or automate recurring tasks with custom scripts in JavaScript and Python.<br><br>With the Enterprise version, you can even define custom rules and automations that make your everyday life much easier.'
      items:
          - image: '/images/logos/zapier.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/make.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/n8n.svg'
          - image: '/images/logos/seatable-api.svg'
      buttons:
          - label: 'Learn more about integrations'
            link: 'pages/integrations'

    - name: 'banner-2'
      weight: 6
      title: See for yourself and test SeaTable for free.
      buttons:
          - label: 'Register now and get started'
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: 'content-2'
      weight: 7
      title: Collaborate in real time
      subtitle: Finally real-time collaboration
      description: Work together with your team on your projects in real time. SeaTable enables seamless real-time collaboration, no matter where your team members are.<br><br>SeaTable offers comprehensive collaboration functions that enable simultaneous editing and real-time communication. Links and cross-table relationships create a flexible and dynamic data environment.
      items:
          - headline: Easy real-time collaboration
            text: With SeaTable, multiple users can work on a table at the same time without conflicts or version problems.
            icon: list-check
          - headline: Comments and notifications
            text: Discuss data directly in SeaTable and receive instant notifications of changes.
            icon: comment
          - headline: Individual permissions
            text: 'Individual permissions: Define who can see or edit specific tables, columns and rows to ensure maximum control and security over your data.'
            icon: lock-open

    - name: 'content-16'
      weight: 8
      title: Excel alternative with almost unlimited flexibility
      subtitle: Why SeaTable is your ideal Excel alternative
      description: SeaTable offers a flexibility that goes far beyond what you are used to from Excel. Different data types and advanced functions make it the ideal choice for complex data projects. **Organize and analyze your data** with a whole new level of flexibility that you won't find in an Excel program.
      items:
          - headline: Intuitive operation
            text: 'Thanks to the intuitive user interface, you can get started without extensive training. Create your first tables and databases easily with just a few clicks. Thanks to the clear menu structure, even beginners can find their way around quickly. <br><br>Use our numerous templates to get started quickly and easily, or let our online course guide you step by step through your first data project.'
          - headline: Powerful automation
            text: Save time and use the extensive automation functions of SeaTable to **optimize your workflows** and automate recurring tasks.<br><br>With SeaTable, you can also set up automatic notifications when deadlines are exceeded or carry out complex calculations.
          - headline: Real-time collaboration
            text: Benefit from the comprehensive collaboration options in SeaTable. Work together with your team in real time, keep everyone up to date and share your tables and databases with colleagues to work on the same data at the same time.
          - headline: Scalability
            text: 'SeaTable grows with your company. Adapt your databases and applications flexibly to the changing requirements of your company - SeaTable offers you the necessary flexibility.'

    - name: 'content-23'
      weight: 9
      title: Mobile access
      subtitle: Be flexible
      text: Edit your data from anywhere. SeaTable offers mobile access, so you can access your projects on the go.
      image: /images/SeaTable_de.png
      image_alt: 'SeaTable interface on multiple devices for mobile access and flexible data use'

    - name: 'content-13'
      weight: 10
      class:
          - curved
          - bg-gray-100
      title: Alternative to Excel with an intuitive user interface
      subtitle: Create and organize tables
      description: SeaTable offers an intuitive user interface that has been specially designed for ease of use.
      items:
          - headline: Easy to use
            text: SeaTable's familiar table view and drag-and-drop function makes it easy to get started, even for Excel users.
          - headline: Diverse views
            text: Use individual views and the Kanban, Timeline or Gallery plugin to structure your data.
          - headline: Notifications
            text: Define triggers for when you or your colleagues are notified or task statuses are updated.
          - headline: Color markings
            text: Define rules according to which individual or multiple columns are highlighted in color to ensure a better overview.

    - name: 'content-4'
      weight: 11
      title: Get started with our free templates
      subtitle: What is SeaTable?
      text: Creating tables in Excel was yesterday - SeaTable combines free spreadsheet, database and app builder in one platform and offers you comprehensive options for your data management. Use the numerous templates that SeaTable offers to start your projects quickly and efficiently. Based on these templates, you can easily create individual dashboards to visualize your data for further analyses or reports.
      buttons:
          - label: Try it out now
            link: pages/registration
            style: primary
      gridheadline: 'The new tool for'
      items:
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Task management
            text: 'Our template for your task planning replaces the traditional to-do list from Excel and helps you to efficiently manage your daily tasks and increase your productivity. SeaTable offers a user-friendly interface that you can easily adapt to your specific requirements. Decide whether you want to use our practical to-do list template as a table, Kanban or timeline.'
          - icon: ghost
            headline: Project management
            text: 'Use our templates to organize projects efficiently. With SeaTable you can replace complex project management templates from Excel and create individual project plans that are perfectly tailored to your requirements.'
          - icon: ghost
            headline: 'Personnel and vacation planning'
            text: 'Manage your personnel resources more efficiently with SeaTable than with traditional personnel planning in Excel. Our templates enable dynamic management of working hours and absences and offer you a more flexible solution for vacation planning than Excel.'
          - icon:
            headline: Scheduling
            text: 'With SeaTable you can replace the Excel calendar with a more flexible solution that helps you to reliably manage appointments and deadlines and keep track of all important deadlines.'
          - icon:
            headline: Accounting
            text: 'Our templates from the accounting area offer you an effective alternative to the accounting template in Excel and enable easy management of your financial data, so that you can save time and optimize your accounting processes.'
          - icon:
            headline: Financial planning
            text: 'Replace the Excel financial plan with our powerful templates from this area, which will help you to precisely plan and manage your finances and always keep an eye on them via a visualization in the dashboard. These financial planners are ideal for optimizing your financial processes and offer more flexibility than traditional Excel financial planner templates.'

    - name: 'content-3'
      weight: 12
      title: A no-code solution that you can trust in the long term
      subtitle: Cloud or own server
      description: 'With SeaTable you have the choice between two powerful deployment options for your [workflow management]({{< relref "pages/industry-solutions/individual" >}}).'
      items:
          - headline: SeaTable Cloud
            text: Take advantage of the benefits of SeaTable Cloud and benefit from the flexibility and security of a modern cloud infrastructure. SeaTable Cloud is hosted in certified German data centers of a Swiss provider.
            image: /images/template-projektplan.png
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Cloud project plan template as an Excel alternative for modern project planning'
          - headline: SeaTable Server
            text: With SeaTable Server you decide where your data is stored. You have full data sovereignty. With the on-premises version, SeaTable is fully integrated into your existing IT infrastructure.
            image: '/images/template-massnahmenplan.jpg'
            image_alt: 'SeaTable Server action plan template for on‑premises data management as an Excel alternative'

    - name: 'banner-2'
      weight: 13
      title: Register for SeaTable for free to take your processes to the next level
      buttons:
          - label: 'Register now and get started'
            link: 'pages/registration'

    - name: faq
      weight: 14
      title: FAQ – SeaTable as Excel alternative
      items:
          - q: 'Can I use SeaTable free of charge?'
            a: 'Yes, SeaTable offers free use with extensive basic functions. You can create **tables for free, use templates** and benefit from the intuitive user interface. For advanced features and larger teams, there are paid subscriptions that offer additional value'
          - q: 'Can I migrate my data from Excel or Google Spreadsheet to SeaTable?'
            a: 'Yes, you can migrate your data to SeaTable **without any problems**. SeaTable supports the import of .xlsx and .csv files so that you can seamlessly transfer your existing data and can therefore serve as a complete Excel replacement and free Excel alternative.'
          - q: 'Why do I need an Excel alternative?'
            a: "Whether in software development, the digitalization of administration, project management, marketing or human resources - the requirements for complex data management **are constantly increasing in** all specialist areas. The data sources are diverse, the data volumes and the collaboration on this data often exceed the possibilities of conventional free spreadsheets, as you know them from an Excel software or [Google Spreadsheet]({{< relref \"posts/20250318-google-spreadsheet-alternative\" >}}). Expand your possibilities and **increase your productivity with our intuitive, digital no-code platform**.<br><br>SeaTable offers you more than just a spreadsheet. As a comprehensive no-code solution, it enables you to create complex data models, automate workflows and collaborate with your team in real time. Simplify your workflows and save valuable time with our alternative to Excel. Get started today with our free version as a free Excel alternative and experience the benefits of modern, flexible and efficient data management."
          - q: Is SeaTable better for project management than Excel?
            a: Yes, definitely. Don't use Excel for your next project plan - use SeaTable instead. This is because Excel project management templates quickly reach their limits with complex projects. With SeaTable, you can create a project plan that goes far beyond the functions of a conventional Excel program. Instead of making do with rigid tables, SeaTable offers you an intuitive user interface to efficiently manage tasks, schedules and resources.
          - q: Can I use SeaTable as an Excel alternative in the HR department?
            a: "Personnel planning with the conventional Excel program is often tedious. Especially when it comes to vacation planning or shift planning, companies quickly reach the limits of the classic Excel program. SeaTable offers an efficient and free Excel alternative for modern personnel planning:<br>

            - Easily create a front end for your personnel management with the universal app
  
            - Create clear staff schedules and vacation plans that update in real time
  
            - Define who has access to sensitive data via the authorization management"
          - q: Can I also use SeaTable as a data analysis tool?
            a: Yes, here too SeaTable is a strong alternative to Excel. Because when it comes to data analysis, Excel as a program quickly reaches its limits. SeaTable offers you a free Excel alternative to better structure, analyse and visualize your data - all in a user-friendly environment. Use SeaTable to filter, group and transform data into pivot tables with just a few clicks. Experience how easy and fast data analysis can be - with the basic features already available as a free alternative to Excel.
---
