src/content/pages/product/seatable-server/index.en.md, before:

---
title: 'SeaTable On-Premises: Complete control on your own server'
description: ''
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/on-premises'
aliases:
    - '/en/on-premises/'
seo:
    title: 'On-Premises: Secure Database Solution for Business'
    description: 'Full control on your own server: SeaTable On-Premises secures data, custom access. The enterprise choice for IT compliance.'


sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: All SeaTable features on your own server
      subtitle: SeaTable Server
      text: Installing SeaTable On-Premises on your own servers is the perfect solution for companies that want full control over their data. With just one instance - your own infrastructure - you maintain complete sovereignty over your data and can fully customize the system to your needs.
      classes:
          - bg-gray-100

    - name: content-11
      weight: 2
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-white
      title: With great power comes great responsibility
      subtitle: Location-independent
      items:
          - text: 'SeaTable is one of the few cloud solutions that you can also get as an on-premises solution.'
          - text: 'You license a SeaTable Enterprise Server and can install and operate the server software wherever you want.'
          - text: 'Use all SeaTable features while remaining independent: You decide how much support you want from us.'
      image: '/images/Product-Page-SeaTable-Server-700x450-1.png'
      image_position: left
      buttons:
          - label: To Admin Manual
            link: https://admin.seatable.com

    - name: content-11
      weight: 3
      title: The advantages of your own SeaTable server
      subtitle: Full control
      items:
          - text: With your SeaTable Enterprise System, you can use your own URL, templates, custom color codes as well as roles and permissions.
          - text: At the same time, SeaTable supports all common authentication techniques like SAML, OAuth, Shibboleth, Active Directory and LDAP. It enables two-factor authentication and single sign-on and supports cluster-capable backends like Ceph and S3.
          - text: In your system, you determine which API limits should apply or whether any should apply at all.
      image: '/images/Product-Page-Server_750x500.png'
      buttons:
          - label: To pricing
            link: pages/prices

    - name: content-4
      weight: 6
      title: You have control over your server.
      subtitle: Support and services
      text: Nevertheless, you can use our help whenever you want.
      items:
          - icon: medal
            headline: Installation
            text: Save yourself the trouble of learning about SeaTable's special features. We'll handle the one-time installation for you.
          - icon: terminal
            headline: Maintenance and support
            text: We can also support you during ongoing operations. From minor updates to complete OS updates, we handle everything.
          - icon: circle-question
            headline: Consulting, training and workshops
            text: Benefit from our extensive experience in using SeaTable.
          - icon: medal
            headline: Custom development
            text: We're also happy to help with the development of plugins, scripts or templates. Contact us.
          - icon: terminal
            headline: Corporate Support
            text: On request, we offer you better response times and better support.
          - icon: circle-question
            headline: What are you waiting for?
            text: Contact us
          # Make a button below and fill the white box with content

    - name: product-comparison-table
      weight: 7
      title: The three SeaTable products at a glance
      subtitle: Comparison of our products
---

Commit message:

on-premises & plan-funeral, image_alt, all languages

src/content/pages/product/seatable-server/index.en.md, after:

---
title: 'SeaTable On-Premises: Complete control on your own server'
description: ''
date: '2025-03-30'
url: '/on-premises'
aliases:
    - '/en/on-premises/'
seo:
    title: 'On-Premises: Secure Database Solution for Business'
    description: 'Full control on your own server: SeaTable On-Premises secures data, custom access. The enterprise choice for IT compliance.'


sections:
    - name: hero-5
      weight: 1
      title: All SeaTable features on your own server
      subtitle: SeaTable Server
      text: Installing SeaTable On-Premises on your own servers is the perfect solution for companies that want full control over their data. With just one instance - your own infrastructure - you maintain complete sovereignty over your data and can fully customize the system to your needs.
      classes:
          - bg-gray-100

    - name: content-11
      weight: 2
      classes:
          - curved
          - bg-white
      title: With great power comes great responsibility
      subtitle: Location-independent
      items:
          - text: 'SeaTable is one of the few cloud solutions that you can also get as an on-premises solution.'
          - text: 'You license a SeaTable Enterprise Server and can install and operate the server software wherever you want.'
          - text: 'Use all SeaTable features while remaining independent: You decide how much support you want from us.'
      image: '/images/Product-Page-SeaTable-Server-700x450-1.png'
      image_position: left
      image_alt: 'SeaTable Server interface for on‑premises operation with full data control'
      buttons:
          - label: To Admin Manual
            link: https://admin.seatable.com

    - name: content-11
      weight: 3
      title: The advantages of your own SeaTable server
      subtitle: Full control
      items:
          - text: With your SeaTable Enterprise System, you can use your own URL, templates, custom color codes as well as roles and permissions.
          - text: At the same time, SeaTable supports all common authentication techniques like SAML, OAuth, Shibboleth, Active Directory and LDAP. It enables two-factor authentication and single sign-on and supports cluster-capable backends like Ceph and S3.
          - text: In your system, you determine which API limits should apply or whether any should apply at all.
      image: '/images/Product-Page-Server_750x500.png'
      image_alt: 'SeaTable on‑premises system architecture with dedicated server infrastructure'
      buttons:
          - label: To pricing
            link: pages/prices

    - name: content-4
      weight: 6
      title: You have control over your server.
      subtitle: Support and services
      text: Nevertheless, you can use our help whenever you want.
      items:
          - icon: medal
            headline: Installation
            text: Save yourself the trouble of learning about SeaTable's special features. We'll handle the one-time installation for you.
          - icon: terminal
            headline: Maintenance and support
            text: We can also support you during ongoing operations. From minor updates to complete OS updates, we handle everything.
          - icon: circle-question
            headline: Consulting, training and workshops
            text: Benefit from our extensive experience in using SeaTable.
          - icon: medal
            headline: Custom development
            text: We're also happy to help with the development of plugins, scripts or templates. Contact us.
          - icon: terminal
            headline: Corporate Support
            text: On request, we offer you better response times and better support.
          - icon: circle-question
            headline: What are you waiting for?
            text: Contact us
          # Make a button below and fill the white box with content

    - name: product-comparison-table
      weight: 7
      title: The three SeaTable products at a glance
      subtitle: Comparison of our products
---
